Corporate Social Responsibility Report
2024
© Teradyne 2024. All rights reserved. Updated 111124
A Message from our CEO
Our company’s core values of “Honesty and Integrity, A Company Without Doors, and Customers Count On Us,” are the
cornerstones of our culture. These core values guide our perspectives, our priorities, and our decisions.
Environmental sustainability is critically important to our customers and to us. Reducing power consumption, conservation of
clean water, reducing pollution, and transitioning to sustainable materials are important to the technology industry broadly and
to semiconductor manufacturing in particular. Sustainability is key to our collective future and has become increasingly important
commercially as our customers work to deliver on their own sustainability targets. Our SoC testers provide customers with the
flexibility to scale capacity for different types of semiconductors used for a variety of applications, allowing them to optimize
utilization and eliminating the need for excess system purchases. Because the life of a system may be decades, they are also
designed to be backward and forward compatible with technology generations, lengthening their useful life, helping to reduce
electronic materials waste.
From the cell phone in your hand, the car that you drive to the servers that are the backbone of the internet, it’s likely we have
tested critical components of the systems that we all rely on daily. Across our test business, we are committed to engineering our
solutions with a goal of limiting power consumption, helping our customers achieve their targets.
Our robotics business is headquartered in Odense, Denmark where we are a founding member of the Odense Climate Partnership.
Gregory Smith This community of companies and organizations is striving to make Odense climate neutral by 2030. Our collaborative robots
President & CEO, Teradyne Inc. (cobots) and autonomous mobile robots (AMRs) enable companies and economies to grow despite persistent labor shortages.
Importantly, our software driven robots enable industrial workers to transition from dangerous and repetitive tasks to higher value,
more fulfilling roles while supporting cleaner and more efficient manufacturing.
Within Teradyne, we are focused on training and skills development for our employees as we make a concerted effort to attract and retain
diverse talent. Our Employee Resource Groups help to foster a greater sense of belonging while a considerable portion of charitable
giving supports STEM-related education and project-based learning to introduce students of diverse backgrounds to Teradyne.
These are just a few examples of what’s in our updated CSR report. Please read on for all the details. We recognize that ESG activities
are an integral part of the growth, innovation, and value creation that drives Teradyne, and we appreciate your interest in our efforts.
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Teradyne’s Commitment to ESG
Teradyne actively works to improve the operating
performance of all parts of our company.
We are reducing our impact on the environment, positively
contributing to the communities in which we operate, and
conducting our business in an honest, ethical manner.
Teradyne and the RBA
Teradyne is an affiliate member of the RBA
Our responsible sourcing program requires
our suppliers to adhere to environmental
and social responsibility principles and
guidelines consistent with those outlined
by the Responsible Business Alliance.
Through the RBA Portal, any RBA member can request
a Trading Relationship with Teradyne and access our RBA
reports/data directly.
4 Executive Summary About Teradyne CSR Vision Stakeholder Engagement Foundational Framework Sustainable Environment Our Solutions Social Engagement Ethical Governance Our Reporting
ENVIRONMENTAL
Teradyne reports green house gas emissions
and sets long term environmental targets in
accordance with global standards
Environmental Impact Reporting: Teradyne began reporting our emissions to the CDP
in 2005 and we adhere to the recommendations and guidelines outlined by the CDP.
Climate Risk/Opportunity Disclosures/Reporting: Teradyne annually assesses climate-related business
risks/opportunities. Maps disclosures to SASB, TCFD, and the Global Reporting Initiative Standards.
Sustainability in the Semiconductor Supply Chain: Teradyne is an active member of the SCC and shares
the vision to support industry-wide collaboration, Scope 1, 2, and 3 reporting transparency, and setting
near and long-term decarbonization targets to reach net zero emissions by 2050.
Targets for Emissions Reduction: Teradyne has submitted a letter of commitment to the SBTi
with science-based emissions reduction targets aligned with the SBTi guidelines and methods.
5 Executive Summary About Teradyne CSR Vision Stakeholder Engagement Foundational Framework Sustainable Environment Our Solutions Social Engagement Ethical Governance Our Reporting
ENVIRONMENTAL
We Measure & Report our Environmental Impact
MWh Energy MWh Renewable Scope 1 & 2 tonnes
Consumed Energy Generated CO equivalent Scope 1
2
75,708 1,054 33,065 Direct GHG emissions:
3,928 tonnes CO
2
equivalent
Water Waste Recycled
Consumed (m^3) Recycled (tonnes)
124,322 74% 1,215
Scope 2
Energy indirect GHG emissions:
2023 Metrics at Our Three Largest Locations 29,601 tonnes CO
2
equivalent
North Reading Cebu Costa Rica
Energy Consumed (MWh) 14,145 12,316 4,312
Scope 3 (includes 3.1, 3.3, 3.5-3.7)
Renewable Energy (MWh) 784
Other indirect GHG emissions:
Scope 1 & 2 Co equivalent (tonnes) 5,622 11,359 456
2
267,773 tonnes CO
Recycled (tonnes) 81.2 110 8.4
2
equivalent
See Full Report — Our CDP Submittal
6 Executive Summary About Teradyne CSR Vision Stakeholder Engagement Foundational Framework Sustainable Environment Our Solutions Social Engagement Ethical Governance Our Reporting
ENVIRONMENTAL
We Have Set Clear Targets to Reduce our Impact
on the Environment
UN Sustainable Development
Environment Critical Few Goal 2023 Status 2030 Target
Goal Alignment
Signed zero-emission VPPA to
Scope 1 and 2 Emissions
Scope 1 and 2 offset 40% of TER total emissions; 42% reduction
Reduction
VPPA online beginning 2026
We have submitted our letter of intent
25% reduction
Scope 3 Scope 3 Emissions Reduction to set SBTi not the actual targets.
Pending review by SBTi
Those are due at the end of 2024
Launched initiative to establish diversion
of operations/facility waste from landfills: >60% of TER
Solid Waste Landfill Operations Waste Reduction reuse/recycle programs and incineration operations/facilities waste
with diverted from landfill
heat recovery.
Introduce Sustainable Target introduction of water-based Elimination of PFAS coolants
Sustainable Products
Coolants in 2025 coolants in 2025 in next-generation testers
7 Executive Summary About Teradyne CSR Vision Stakeholder Engagement Foundational Framework Sustainable Environment Our Solutions Social Engagement Ethical Governance Our Reporting
SOCIAL
We Follow Local and Global Standards Guide
our Efforts to Positively Impact the Communities
in which we Operate
Teradyne supports the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (Reference pages 12-13 of CSR)
United Nations Sustainable • E nd Poverty, Gender Equality, Quality Education, Clean Water & Sanitation, Affordable and Clean Energy, Decent Work
and Economic Growth, Industry, Innovation & Infrastructure, Reduced Inequalities, Responsible Consumption & Production,
Development Goals
Climate Action, Peace, Justice & Strong Institutions
• Employee Resource Groups – Our ERGs improve the sense of belonging and inclusion of our colleagues.
Support Our Employees • M entorship Circles – Our mentorship program provides the opportunity for employees to meet in small groups
with company leaders to discuss career development topics.
Our active philanthropy program supports the communities in which we operate
• F inancial support and in some cases active employee engagement to support STEM Education
Community
at the middle school, high school and collegiate level
Support
• Scholarships to UNCF students to support people of color in higher education
• Diversity Investments include: Women’s Leader Initiative, NAACP L&E Fund, Resilient Coders
• T eradyne Gives provides match donations up to $1,000 per year per employee to support non-profit
organizations focused on improving health, wellness, education, our environment, and disaster relief
8 Executive Summary About Teradyne CSR Vision Stakeholder Engagement Foundational Framework Sustainable Environment Our Solutions Social Engagement Ethical Governance Our Reporting
GOVERNANCE
Teradyne is Committed to Conducting Business
with Honesty & Integrity
Operational Ethical Business Compliance Human Data Security Product
Excellence Governance Continuity & Risk Rights & Privacy Security
& Corporate Policies Management
Governance
9 Executive Summary About Teradyne CSR Vision Stakeholder Engagement Foundational Framework Sustainable Environment Our Solutions Social Engagement Ethical Governance Our Reporting
Teradyne was named one of the Teradyne was noted as a
“2023 Top-Rated “2023 VETS Indexes
ESG Companies” Recognized Employer”
by Sustainalytics by Vets Indexes
Teradyne was listed in Teradyne was included on
“America’s Most Responsible “USA Today’s 2023
Companies 2023” List of Climate Leaders”
by Newsweek by USA Today
10 Executive Summary About Teradyne CSR Vision Stakeholder Engagement Foundational Framework Sustainable Environment Our Solutions Social Engagement Ethical Governance Our Reporting
2023 ESG Dashboard
ESG Rating Distribution ESG Risk Rating Distribution Distribution of Ratings
41 Companies in the Industry
23% 24% 40%
64%
16% 30%
43%
10% 10% 10% 9% 32% 20%
19%
27% 10% 10%
0% 1% 3% 0%
0%
CCC B BB BBB A AA AAA Negligible Low Medium High Severe D- D D+ C- C C+ B- B B+ A- A A+
*MSCI ESG Rating (Max/Best-AAA) *Sustainalytics Risk Analysis (Max/Best-Negligible) *ISS ESG Rating (Max/Best-A+)
ESG Risk Rating Cyber Risk Score
Firmographic Max: 800, ISS 5.0.0 Cyber Risk Score
15.3
Rank | Percentile
500 650
Industry High Risk Low Risk
Semiconductors 23 / 371 | 7th
Subindustry
775
Semiconductor 9 / 127 | 7th
Low Risk Equipment 679
300 850
Sustainanytics Risk Analysis Last Full Update May 2023 ISS Cyber-Security Rate As of January 2024
11 Executive Summary About Teradyne CSR Vision Stakeholder Engagement Foundational Framework Sustainable Environment Our Solutions Social Engagement Ethical Governance Our Reporting
What’s Inside
About Teradyne Our Solutions
ESG Overview at Teradyne 13 S: Social Engagement: Our People and Communities 51
Sustainability at Teradyne 15 G: Ethical Governance 69
Index: Alignment with External Reporting Frameworks
Our Focus & Priorities Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) 73
Corporate Social Responsibility Vision 17 Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) 75
Stakeholder Engagement 19 Global Reporting Initiative 76
Foundational Framework 20
E: Sustainable Environment 21
ESG Overview at Teradyne
Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) activities touch Teradyne’s ESG Organization Structure
all functions within Teradyne. While some ESG topics have
always been foundational to the ways in which we operate
our business, other topics have emerged more recently
as Teradyne and the global economy evolve. ESG-related
activities are guided by a steering team that reports to the
CEO, CFO and the Board of Directors. Board of Directors Nominating & Governance Committee has primary oversight responsibility
This Corporate Social Responsibility Report provides an
Greg Smith, President & CEO
overview of our business and ESG practices. We reported Senior Leadership
Sanjay Mehta, CFO
calendar year 2023 data to the Carbon Disclosure
Project and, where applicable, mapped that data and
Legal Facilities Management
other disclosures to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI),
Investor Relations Business Units
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) and ESG Steering Team
Global Compliance Environmental Health & Safety Operations Compliance
Taskforce for Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
Human Resources Information Technology
frameworks in this report.
Facilities Management
This report provides data on other ESG related measures, Environmental Health & Safety
Business Units Governance/Compliance Operations
where available, through December 30, 2023. We also Human Resources
ESG Working Team Information Technology
provide ESG information in other public disclosures such Communications
Internal Audit Team
as our Annual Report on Form 10K and annual Proxy. We Legal
Supply Chain Team
recognize that our ESG journey is ongoing, and we will
continue to update our progress.
13 Executive Summary About Teradyne CSR Vision Stakeholder Engagement Foundational Framework Sustainable Environment Our Solutions Social Engagement Ethical Governance Our Reporting
ESG Overview at Teradyne
As the Global ESG Manager, I am proud of our commitment to driving
meaningful ESG initiatives throughout Teradyne. Our efforts include but
At Teradyne, our commitment to sustainability drives us to continuously enhance our impact
are not limited to:
on the environment and society. We take responsibility for minimizing the negative effects
of our operations while amplifying the positive contributions we can make. Our approach
• I mplementing green initiatives: From energy-efficient lighting to recycling
to a sustainable supply chain is anchored in respecting human and labor rights, ethical
programs and digital workflows, we are focused on minimizing our
sourcing, and fostering responsible practices. We are deeply committed to reducing our
environmental impact and promoting sustainability.
carbon footprint, conserving resources, and advancing the circular economy across all
facets of our business. • P romoting a responsible supply chain: We work closely with our suppliers
to ensure they adhere to ethical, sustainable, and responsible sourcing and
Our dedication extends to maintaining a supply chain that not only meets rigorous
manufacturing practices that respect human and labor rights.
environmental standards but also upholds the dignity and rights of individuals. We ensure
that fair labor practices, diversity, and inclusivity are at the core of our operations and • F ostering a safe and inclusive workplace: We are dedicated to providing
that our suppliers share these values. By integrating robust Environmental, Social, and a work environment that values diversity, employee well-being, and
Governance (ESG) principles, we are creating long-term value for our stakeholders—our engagement, ensuring all voices are heard and respected.
employees, customers, shareholders, and communities.
• U pholding strong governance: Our transparent, ethical, and effective
We are unwavering in our pledge to transparency, setting ambitious targets, measuring governance practices include establishing a board-level ESG committee
progress, and reporting our achievements. At Teradyne, we are building a resilient and to oversee our ESG strategy and performance.
responsible business model that contributes to a more sustainable and equitable world,
• O ur commitment to continuous improvement and transparency in ESG
demonstrating that together, we can lead the way to a brighter future.
practices remains steadfast. We regularly assess our performance, set clear
targets, and strive to exceed them. We believe that strong ESG practices not
only benefit the environment and society but also drive our business success.
We encourage all our stakeholders to join us in this journey towards a more
Dr. Andres Willkie Please do not hesitate to contact sustainable future.
Global ESG Manager us at esg@teradyne.com if you have
Teradyne Inc. any questions or suggestions.
14 Executive Summary About Teradyne CSR Vision Stakeholder Engagement Foundational Framework Sustainable Environment Our Solutions Social Engagement Ethical Governance Our Reporting
Sustainability at Teradyne
Teradyne was named one of the
“2023 Top-Rated
ESG Companies”
Value of Our Business State of Our Business
by Sustainalytics
Teradyne helps companies bring high-quality innovations Teradyne’s business performance is a reflection of the hard work
to market, fast. We automate two of manufacturing’s most and creative energy of over 6,500 employees around the world.
critical elements – electronic test and repetitive manual Their determination and enthusiasm to solve our customers’ test and Teradyne was listed in
industrial tasks – with automated test equipment and industrial automation problems speak to both the challenges of working in a
“America’s Most
automation solutions. Our customers are companies of all sizes fast-paced, technology driven business, and the rewards of making
in diverse markets, and they depend on us to make certain the future a reality for people everywhere. Responsible
their electronic or industrial products perform as expected,
every single time. Our enduring commitment to advanced test After more than a decade of consolidation in the semiconductor test Companies 2023”
market, Teradyne has emerged as one of the two industry leaders. We
and automation solutions means that we’re improving how the
remain disciplined and focused on the company’s long-term growth
world lives, works and innovates. by Newsweek
and sustainability. Our strategy is to build on our strong position in the
Automated test can enable customers to reduce material and automated test equipment (ATE) industry while investing in emerging
electronic waste through identifying points of failure, and in advanced industrial automation technologies We understand that
some cases tuning or fixing errant parts so that they perform as the more effective our test solutions, the better able we are to help Teradyne was noted as a
expected. This allows customers to identify problems early, so our customers achieve their goals, like power reduction, reducing
“2023 VETS Indexes
that points of failure are either fixed or scrapped before more materials waste, and improving cost efficiencies. Our well-established
resources are used to complete the system. As semiconductor ATE business provides the infrastructure, systems and processes that Recognized Employer”
content in everything is growing - from small Internet of Things supports the long-term sustainable growth of our Robotics business.
(IOT) devices, to smart phones, to automobiles z- there is an
by Vets Indexes
Our test businesses are driven by the growth in semiconductor content
increasing need to ensure electronic components and systems
in products from mobile phones to servers and automobiles and the
reliably work as intended.
ever-increasing complexity of semiconductor devices that run the
Our Robotics business frees human resources from repetitive, systems and applications that touch nearly every aspect of our lives. Teradyne was included on
dirty, and dangerous tasks to work on more interesting, “USA Today’s 2023 List
Our robotics businesses serve an evolving manufacturing industry, where
higher value-added jobs. Many geographies that have been
manufacturing hubs are facing labor shortages, as they face faster product cycles and higher variability in products require greater agility of Climate Leaders”
in manufacturing and logistics. Unlike traditional industrial automation,
the combination of an aging workforce and younger potential
our robots are safe to work side by side and around humans, making
workers who prefer not to work in a factory. Our software by USA Today
them well suited platforms for AI training. We believe that our cobots and
driven cobots and our autonomous mobile robots enable
autonomous mobile robots will help to bring AI to the physical world,
companies and economies to grow despite demographic
driving operational efficiency and enabling growth across industries.
changes that limit the availability of manufacturing labor.
15 Executive Summary About Teradyne CSR Vision Stakeholder Engagement Foundational Framework Sustainable Environment Our Solutions Social Engagement Ethical Governance Our Reporting
Teradyne by the Numbers
Founded: Headquarters: Employees: Offices worldwide: Stock Ticker:
1960 North Reading, 6,500+ 75+ TER
Massachusetts, USA
(NASDAQ)
16 Executive Summary About Teradyne CSR Vision Stakeholder Engagement Foundational Framework Sustainable Environment Our Solutions Social Engagement Ethical Governance Our Reporting
Corporate Social Responsibility Vision
We integrate quality, safety and sustainability
into every aspect of our business, with the
OUR FOCUS AREAS & PRIORITIES
goal of engineering a better future.
Our test and automation solutions are Society People Planet
fundamental to the growth of many industries
• Human rights • Talent acquisition, • Energy & greenhouse
and have a profound effect on the world development & retention gas emissions
• Responsible sourcing
around us. We respect this global influence
& manufacturing • Innovation & collaboration • Waste reduction
and realize that we have the opportunity,
• Volunteerism & philanthropy • Workforce diversity, • Sustainable products
as well as responsibility, to apply technology
equity & inclusion
• Community engagement
in ways that advance society.
17 Executive Summary About Teradyne CSR Vision Stakeholder Engagement Foundational Framework Sustainable Environment Our Solutions Social Engagement Ethical Governance Our Reporting
Teradyne Core Values
A COMPANY WITHOUT DOORS
Innovation is driven by collaboration and we empower our employees to use their
voices and share their ideas. If you don’t know, feel free to ask. If you do know, it’s
your job to share.
HONESTY & INTEGRITY
We are transparent about our corporate strategy and how we conduct business.
We act with integrity in all that we do for customers, shareholders,
our communities, and each other.
CUSTOMERS CAN COUNT ON US
We partner with our customers every step of the way – from idea to final product –
maintaining the highest standards. We go above and beyond to ensure our customers’ success.
18 Executive Summary About Teradyne CSR Vision Stakeholder Engagement Foundational Framework Sustainable Environment Our Solutions Social Engagement Ethical Governance Our Reporting
Teradyne engages with
Stakeholder Engagement
stakeholders to inform them
about our sustainability
efforts, and to understand
their expectations and
perceptions of the company.
Our CSR activities are directly linked to stakeholder expectations and corporate values, which ensures
the program is aligned with the company’s core DNA and supported across the organization.
Customers Shareholders
Our customers are at the center of everything we do. We strive Our CSR initiatives promote value creation to attract and reward
to help our customers achieve their own CSR and business shareholders through profitable growth, operational efficiency,
goals through sustainability leadership and by delivering reliable, transparency and lower costs using sustainable business practices.
socially conscious solutions that meet their needs.
Communities
Employees
Our employees play an important role in their communities
Teradyne attracts, develops and retains a high-performance supporting education, local activities to improve the environment,
workforce, comprised of people with diverse backgrounds and a living conditions of their neighbors, disaster relief and numerous
common drive for excellence. We strive to foster a positive work other community engagements. Teradyne supports our employees’
environment that helps employees and communities thrive. efforts and strives to be a responsible member of the communities
where our employees live or host our operations.
19 Executive Summary About Teradyne CSR Vision Stakeholder Engagement Foundational Framework Sustainable Environment Our Solutions Social Engagement Ethical Governance Our Reporting
Foundational Framework
Teradyne ensures business and sustainability
success by measuring progress within our
Our foundational pillars provide a structure to Our People & Communities
CSR framework. This framework is grounded
which all CSR efforts are aligned for company
Teradyne values a diverse, equitable, inclusive and respectful
in environmental stewardship, innovative
and global community benefit. work environment where all employees enjoy development
solutions, investment in our people and our opportunities and a safe, positive culture. We also invest in the
communities and ethical governance. communities where we operate.
Environmental Stewardship
We participate in local and global volunteer efforts and support
Teradyne prioritizes natural resource conservation, emission
numerous charitable and educational organizations. We further
reduction, waste minimization and energy efficiency.
strengthen communities through philanthropic giving, employee
Our ISO 14001-certified Environmental Management System volunteerism, community sponsorships and grant programs.
drives continuous reduction of any adverse environmental
impacts from our operations.
Ethical Governance
Teradyne is committed to conducting business in a responsible
Our Solutions
manner, with strategic operational policies, procedures and values
Teradyne’s portfolio of advanced, reliable and flexible test that support transparency, sustainability and legal compliance.
and automation solutions are responsibly sourced, compliant We ensure ethical operations and business commitments through
with applicable regulations and maximize the value of limited robust governance of the company’s standards of business conduct
environmental resources. and environmental, health and safety programs.
20 Executive Summary About Teradyne CSR Vision Stakeholder Engagement Foundational Framework Sustainable Environment Our Solutions Social Engagement Ethical Governance Our Reporting
SUSTAINABLE ENVIRONMENT
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals
Teradyne aligned its practices and aspirations with several of the Sustainable Development Goals adopted by the United Nations in
2015. These goals serve as a collective roadmap for all nations to cultivate endeavors that advance peace, prosperity, and a sustainable
future for both humanity and the environment. The following is a high-level recap of Teradyne’s efforts on each of the mentioned goals.
Details on each of the initiatives are fully described among this CSR.
Teradyne Gives, our employee charitable match program, supports our employees’ Teradyne’s DEI program focuses on:
volunteer activities and donations by matching up to $1,000 per year of employee • S trategy and actions to improve opportunities for underrepresented
financial donations to non-profit organizations focused on improving health, populations in hiring, advancement, and leadership development
wellness, education, our environment, and disaster relief. • E xpanded learning opportunities for all employees in diversity, equity,
inclusion, and managing diverse teams
• M onitoring workforce demographic metrics, comparing them to benchmarks
and using this data to drive improvement throughout the organization
Teradyne prioritizes Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) • P hilanthropic support of organizations and initiatives driving DEI including
advocacy through our support of high school robotics competitions, college academic, economic, career and social justice opportunities
scholarships, university programs, paid internships and co-op opportunities, and
increasing diversity in STEM graduates. We also donate test equipment and robots
to colleges, universities, or vocational programs to provide students with hands-on Teradyne recognizes the essential role of water to our business. Water
experiences that directly apply to what they’re learning in the classroom. stewardship is part of our effort to continually reduce the environmental impact
of our operations. We have an objective to reduce our absolute
water consumption.
21 Executive Summary About Teradyne CSR Vision Stakeholder Engagement Foundational Framework Sustainable Environment Our Solutions Social Engagement Ethical Governance Our Reporting
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (continued)
Teradyne has a goal to achieve 100% renewable energy for our Scope 1 and 2 Teradyne offers its employees competitive compensation programs and
emissions. In 2022 Teradyne signed a Virtual Power Purchase Agreement (VPPA). benefits plans designed to meet the needs of employees and their families,
The VPPA allows us to achieve our 100% renewable energy goal through the including gender pay equity, parental leave, health insurance coverage and
creation of new green energy. flexible work arrangements.
Teradyne focuses on talent attraction and talent retention strategies, including: Teradyne’s responsible sourcing program requires our suppliers to adhere
• T alent Acquisition, Talent Management and Training & Development, which to environmental and social responsibility principles. The program is based
support both attracting and retaining talented colleagues and the professional on the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) guidelines, of which Teradyne
and personal growth of employees and job candidates is an affiliate member.
• E mployee Well Being, which focuses on creating a rewarding and fulfilling
work environment
• C ommunity Engagement, which promotes our work with the communities
where our facilities are located Teradyne is committed to lowering its carbon footprint. Climate and energy
• D iversity, Equity & Inclusion, which describes our efforts to support all are major focus areas in our sustainability strategy to combat climate change.
employees and candidates to reach their full potential With our critical role being at the front end of the semiconductor value chain,
we acknowledge our direct contribution and influence on low carbon end-use
products and recognize our responsibility in this entire value chain ecosystem.
We test the semiconductor chips that make fossil fuel powered vehicles more
efficient, power zero emission electric automobiles, subways, trains and buses, enable
advanced communication systems that allow remote working and learning and Teradyne’s Human Rights Policy fully aligns with the Responsible Business
power the global economy. Our robotics bring advanced automation to companies Alliance standard, including with respect to prohibition of forced or bonded
of all sizes everywhere, by combining the power of machines and human talent to labor, child labor, discrimination and other inhumane labor practices. We protect
improve operational efficiency and provide safer work environments. and support employees’ rights through labor policies that ensure living wages,
limits on working hours and freedom of association and collective bargaining.
22 Executive Summary About Teradyne CSR Vision Stakeholder Engagement Foundational Framework Sustainable Environment Our Solutions Social Engagement Ethical Governance Our Reporting
SUSTAINABLE ENVIRONMENT
Environmental Health & Safety Management
The health and safety of all our stakeholders
are critical to our long-term success. Teradyne’s
EHS program is led by a senior manager
supported by team members worldwide and
reports to the Corporate Facilities Manager
who reports to the Chief Financial Officer. Our
corporate headquarters in North Reading, MA
conducts EHS audits to ensure best practices
in safety and environmental.
Teradyne is third-party ISO 14001 certified at our corporate
headquarters in North Reading, Massachusetts, as well as
our facilities in Heredia, Costa Rica; Kumamoto, Japan; and
Cebu, Philippines.
These facilities represent our principal production and repair
locations where EHS management is critical. All our locations
utilize the ISO 14001 framework for our sustainability
initiatives throughout the company, allowing us to set targets
and drive continuous improvement. This certification covers
our employees as well as our facilities.
23 Executive Summary About Teradyne CSR Vision Stakeholder Engagement Foundational Framework Sustainable Environment Our Solutions Social Engagement Ethical Governance Our Reporting
SUSTAINABLE ENVIRONMENT
Climate Change & Sustainable Business Practices
Teradyne recognizes that climate change 100% Renewable Energy Some ways in which we prioritize our emissions and energy use
are through natural resource conservation, waste minimization,
impacts all aspects of society and poses a
100% Renewable Energy Teradyne aims to achieve 100% increasing our energy efficiency and emission reduction.
serious threat to our health, food supply, water
renewable energy by 2025 for our US Scope 2 emissions.
supply and the global economy. We believe Our approach is to utilize on-site renewable energy projects At our headquarters, we have been exploring our water usage
and through a Virtual Power Purchase Agreement (VPPA). and have begun the process of reducing our reliance on
that everyone shares responsibility to mitigate
When the Solar Installation constructed through the VPPA irrigation. We are working to improve our landscaping with more
greenhouse gases (GHG) and activities that is operational in 2025, Teradyne will have supported the sustainable options and reducing the number of irrigation heads
negatively impact the environment. creation of new green energy allowing us to achieve our to lower our water usage. We are also upgrading our irrigation
100% renewable energy goal for US Scope 2 emissions. system to a more efficient system that considers rainfall and
Businesses are already experiencing the negative impacts of Scope 2 emissions are those resulting from the generation identifies lines with water leaks.
climate change, from infrastructure damage to disruptions of electricity we purchase. We expect to continue the path
At our headquarters, we have an initiative to reduce our total
to logistics, input supplies and customers. Teradyne supports to 100% renewable emissions for other locations we operate
waste and reduce the waste we send to landfills. For the first
global efforts to mitigate the impact of climate change. While in and will provide progress updates via our CSR.
time this year, we have an agreement with our waste hauler that
environmental challenges do pose a risk, they also provide
opportunities for companies who are willing to build climate We are planning to submit near-term and long-term net zero all garbage leaving out headquarters will go to an incineration
resilience and lead the way forward. Science-Based targets in 2025 for validation through SBTi. plant, where it will be converted to energy through heat
recovery. Here, instead of being left in a landfill where it will
remain indefinitely, the waste is incinerated and converted into
energy through heat recovery.
24 Executive Summary About Teradyne CSR Vision Stakeholder Engagement Foundational Framework Sustainable Environment Our Solutions Social Engagement Ethical Governance Our Reporting
SUSTAINABLE ENVIRONMENT
Energy Management & Greenhouse Gases
Teradyne continuously monitors risks and At our leased offices, we evaluate improvements in Teradyne also encourages biking to work. We provide covered
cooperation with property management. These improvements bike storage, bike racks and shower and locker facilities at
opportunities in the field of sustainability
include lighting retrofits and building system upgrades that several of our facilities.
management, such as global policies and
increase energy efficiency. In addition, we explore green leases
In the areas of alternative energy opportunities, we have
regulation trends that impact the business and opportunities to lease buildings that are sustainable. For
installed a 640KW solar installation at our Corporate
example, in 2021 we signed a long-term lease for space at a
environment. We continually assess the
Headquarters in North Reading, Massachusetts and a 208 KW
LEED certified building in Illinois.
environmental impact of our operations solar installation at our Agoura Hills, California location. We
and ways to reduce our climate footprint. Teradyne reports to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) are evaluating solar and renewable energy opportunities at
annually and makes this report publicly available. We additional facilities. We have now completed construction of
Primary areas of focus have been to reduce consumption aggregate data from our facilities globally to enable collection, our new automation hub in Odesne, Denmark. The contruction
of electricity and gas and explore sustainable energy monitoring and reporting of Scope 1, 2 and 3 greenhouse of this new hub largely involved great attention to sustainable
opportunities. Buildings account for a large portion of gases. The program also allows us to calculate the NOx, Sox design, construction, and materials.
Teradyne’s emissions. As such, we have been implementing and CO2 we generate based on our activities and track the
Teradyne provides flexible work hours that allow employees
measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from both our metrics for water consumption and waste management.
to travel during off-peak hours which helps to minimize CO2
owned and leased buildings. We are committed to increasing
In support of promoting sustainable transportation, Teradyne output from sitting in traffic. We also provide flexible work
the efficiency of our energy use by using building automation
has installed EV charging stations at several of our facilities arrangements that allow employees to work from home.
for heating, cooling and lighting, greening our electricity
including our Corporate Headquarters in North Reading
supply and installing more efficient equipment.
Massachusetts and facilities, located in Agoura Hills, and
Examples of projects we have undertaken include: large scale San Jose. Due to the growing demand for EV chargers,
lighting retrofits at our Corporate Headquarters, increasing we are expanding our EV charging at our headquarters to
our heating, ventilation and air conditioning efficiencies by accommodate 10 more charging spots. At our leased sites,
programming setbacks so heating and cooling is only used we are using renewal opportunities to ask landlords for EV
when necessary, and deploying onsite renewable energy Charging stations. We are committed to encouraging and
production where feasible. At our headquarters we have also supporting employee selection of electric vehicles.
upgraded one of our boilers with a new high efficiency boiler.
We have installed variable speed drives for our chillers to
reduce energy use. Lighting controls, daylighting and sensors
help us reduce energy use associated with lighting.
25 Executive Summary About Teradyne CSR Vision Stakeholder Engagement Foundational Framework Sustainable Environment Our Solutions Social Engagement Ethical Governance Our Reporting
SUSTAINABLE ENVIRONMENT
Water Supply
Teradyne is committed to water stewardship related to water consumption and minimizing domestic
discharge are addressed at the local level. Long-term, we plan
and recognizes safe and clean drinking water
to work on a multi-stakeholder water stewardship strategy
and sanitation as a basic human right. Climate
that is inclusive of our suppliers and focuses on improving the
change is affecting where, when and how overall health of watersheds where our operations are located.
We also plan to work on a strategy that includes water risk
much water is available for people to use.
considerations in business decisions such as locating new
Many parts of the world already have very
facilities. We are committed to monitoring progress against
little water, and climate change could make our goals on an annual basis. This includes communication
this problem worse. about our progress in implementing sustainable sourcing
efforts and activities.
We recognize the risks that water scarcity, pollution and weak
In North Reading, we are upgrading our irrigation system.
water governance have on business and the need to better
Starting with controllers/central control system which will help
address the ways our water use and wastewater discharge
us lower water usage using pressure regulated systems and
can impact the nearby ecosystems and communities in which
smart monitoring of water usage and weather.
we operate. We recognize the essential role of water to our
business. Water stewardship is part of our effort to continually
We have also reduced the period of time that irrigation is
reduce the environmental impact of our operations. We have
active throughout the year and have reduced the amount
an objective to reduce our absolute water consumption. The
of turf that requires irrigation throughtout the poperty. This
objective is set at the corporate level and provides a unifying
has resulted in fewer overall irrigation lines.
storyline that pulls together the many specific water-related
activities conducted by our various facilities. We are evaluating facility infrastructure and looking at systems
that utilize boiler blowdown and condensate as refeed into our
At all our facilities, we utilize water saving devices, for example
systems to increase water efficiency.
flow restriction in restrooms, more efficient chillers and steam
boilers, and other water saving devices. Specific water goals
26 Executive Summary About Teradyne CSR Vision Stakeholder Engagement Foundational Framework Sustainable Environment Our Solutions Social Engagement Ethical Governance Our Reporting
SUSTAINABLE ENVIRONMENT
Teradyne’s Scope 1, 2 and 3 Disclosures
Reviewing our value-chain carbon footprint Carbon Disclosure Project
We have over 75 sites around the world. We report to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) annually
and make this report publicly available.
Our North American Operations make up
approximately 40% of our total gross greenhouse We aggregate the data from our global facilities to facilitate
collection, monitoring and reporting of Scope 1, 2 and 3
gas emissions (scope 1 and 2 emissions).
greenhouse gases. As we acquire new companies and
We are committed to lowering our carbon footprint. Climate integrate them into our operations, our goal is to reduce,
and energy are major focus areas in our sustainability or at a minimum maintain flat, company-wide emissions.
strategy to combat climate change. With our critical role in
the semiconductor value chain, we acknowledge our direct
contribution and opportunity to influence lower carbon Sustainably Healthy Workplaces at Teradyne
end-use products.
Teradyne is working to maximize the efficiency of our
We will continue to expand our collection of Scope 3 data.
operations and reduce our global carbon footprint.
Collection of Scope 3 data is complex, and we are working
with our industry group and peers to ensure we implement We promote healthy, productive workplaces and continue
best practices and use accepted methodologies for collection, to search out new opportunities that will advance these
calculation and reporting of Scope 3 emissions. We expanded efforts globally. As we progress, we will monitor our progress
our scope 3 to now include logistics related emissions. year to year and look for areas where we can improve
our performance.
In-order to calculate our 3 scope of emissions, the EHS
department collaborated throughout the company with For more information visit our Full CDP Report
many divisions to be able to gather the necessary data to
perform the calculations. This has been our most extensive
reporting of emissions to date. We have made great
progress in our calculations of Scope 3 for 2023 by Scope 1 covers direct emissions from owned or controlled sources.
automating data collection. Scope 2 covers indirect emissions from the generation of purchased electricity, steam, heating and cooling consumed by the reporting company.
Scope 3 includes all other indirect emissions that occur in a company’s value chain.
27 Executive Summary About Teradyne CSR Vision Stakeholder Engagement Foundational Framework Sustainable Environment Our Solutions Social Engagement Ethical Governance Our Reporting
SUSTAINABLE ENVIRONMENT
Scope 3 Data Collection
We have expanded our collection to include:
PURCHASED GOODS AND SERVICES We are working with an industry group to standardize our UPSTREAM DISTRIBUTION
methodology to calculate our scope 3: use of sold products.
Teradyne estimates our emissions for purchased 2023 upstream distribution for Teradyne
Many companies use design lifecycles or accounting deprivation
goods and services for 2023 at 156,777 MT CO2e. methodologies instead of actual time in the field. Teradyne uses was 9,725 MT CO2e.
the actual years our products are in the field. For transparency:
Methodology: Teradyne’s Purchased Goods and Services emissions Methodology: Calculated by our third party environmental
the average time our products are in the field is 18 years.
were estimated using the spend-based method of the GHG monitoring program based on leases and their locations.
Protocol. Environmentally Extended Input Output (EEIO) data from
the US EPA was used to convert Teradyne’s overall spend with BUSINESS TRAVEL
COMMUTING
suppliers to metric tons of emissions output.
2023 business travel emissions for Teradyne
2023 Commuting distribution for Teradyne
For 2023, we were able to improve our data collection and was 17,695 MT CO2e.
was 4,990 MT CO2e.
calculating process resulting in more accurate emissions figures.
This caused a decrease in our reported emissions for Purchased Methodology: Teradyne uses a third party to arrange travel. Actual
Methodology: Distance-based method, uses total distance per
Goods and Services. data was provided to estimate metric tons attributed to travel.
vehicle type and then applying an emissions factor, ex. kgCO2/mile.
USE OF SOLD PRODUCTS WASTE This year, we were able to release a companywide commuter survey
to all employees internationally. We had an amazing turnout with
Due to the nature of Teradyne’s products, Use of Sold Product 2023 waste emission for Teradyne was 74.44 MT.
a substantial amount of survey responses. Because of this we
is Teradyne’s largest Scope 3 emissions category. We’re working
were able to confidently calculate emissions for this site’s scope 3
diligently to create an accurate baseline of these emissions to Methodology: We used our actual disposal data to determine
category 7.
enable us to set science-based targets. emissions contributed to waste disposal.
28 Executive Summary About Teradyne CSR Vision Stakeholder Engagement Foundational Framework Sustainable Environment Our Solutions Social Engagement Ethical Governance Our Reporting
SUSTAINABLE ENVIRONMENT
Sustainably Healthy Workplaces
Teradyne is working to maximize the MWh Energy MWh Renewable Scope 1 & 2 tonnes
Consumed Energy Generated CO equivalent
efficiency of our operations and reduce 2
75,708 1,054 33,065
our global carbon footprint.
We promote healthy productive workplaces and continue
to search out new opportunities that will advance these
efforts globally. As we progress, we will monitor our progress Water Waste Recycled
Consumed (m^3) Recycled (tonnes)
year to year and look for areas where we can improve
124,322 74% 1,215
our performance.
Comparing year-to-year
At one of our largest cafeterias, we have expanded our food
waste composting from composting waste from the kitchen 2023 Metrics at Our Three Largest Locations
to composting waste from both the kitchen and the from
employees visiting the cafeteria. At this cafeteria we have
also changed the products used to more sustainable options North Reading Cebu Costa Rica
including all compostable products including plates, bowls, and
silverware. We also ensured that these products were PFAS Energy Consumed (MWh) 14,145 12,316 4,312
free. In this cafeteria we have also eliminated the use of paper
Renewable Energy (MWh) 707
cups and are encouraging employees to bring in reusable
Scope 1 & 2 Co equivalent (tonnes) 5,622 9,247.7 456
coffee mugs.
2
Recycled (tonnes) 81.2 110 8.4
Similarly, another Teradyne location has been urging employees
to use reusable water bottles versus plastic single use water
bottles. Since implementing the program, the location has seen
a reduction of water bottles per person by 237%.
29 Executive Summary About Teradyne CSR Vision Stakeholder Engagement Foundational Framework Sustainable Environment Our Solutions Social Engagement Ethical Governance Our Reporting
SUSTAINABLE ENVIRONMENT
Scope 1 & 2 Emissions History
2016 2017 2018 2019
See CDP disclosures for futher details
30 Executive Summary About Teradyne CSR Vision Stakeholder Engagement Foundational Framework Sustainable Environment Our Solutions Social Engagement Ethical Governance Our Reporting
tnelaviuqE
2OC
sennoT
tnelaviuqE
2OC
sennoT
SCOPE 1&2 EMISSIONS PER SQUARE FOOT
-1% CAGR
2016 2017 2018 2019
See CDP disclosures for futher d2e0ta2i0ls 2021 2022 2023
SCOPE 1&2 EMISSIONS PER REVENUE DOLLAR
-5% CAGR
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
See CDP disclosures for futher details
tnelaviuqE
2OC
sennoT
tnelaviuqE
2OC
sennoT
SCOPE 1&2 EMISSIONS PER SQUARE FOOT
-1% CAGR
2020 2021 2022 2023
SCOPE 1&2 EMISSIONS PER REVENUE DOLLAR
-5% CAGR
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
See CDP disclosures for futher details
SUSTAINABLE ENVIRONMENT
Target Performance
• C arbon footprint has been relatively flat the last few years. While sales & the number
of employees grew, our carboon footprint remained the same. To achieve reductions,
we are implementing VPPA and evaluating other vehicles to reduce emissions.
Energy Water
When the Solar Installation constructed through the VPPA Investigate and deploy water reduction measures
is operational in 2025, Teradyne will have supported the where feasible
creation of new green energy allowing us to achieve our
Implement best practices in water management,
100% renewable energy goal for US Scope 2 emissions.
including requesting water audits from landlords
Implementing VPPA and other ways to transition towards
in multi-tenant buildings
net zero for Scope 2 emissions.
Invest in facility infrastructure to employ more efficient
systems and renewables Waste
Investigate end-to-end waste/recycling stream
at our facilities
Carbon
Implement best practices in waste management,
Reduce carbon footprint by looking at renewable energy
including requesting waste audits from providers
opportunities and building product roadmap to align
with SBTi 2030 and 2050 goals
31 Executive Summary About Teradyne CSR Vision Stakeholder Engagement Foundational Framework Sustainable Environment Our Solutions Social Engagement Ethical Governance Our Reporting
SUSTAINABLE ENVIRONMENT
Energy & Climate
Climate change is one of the most extensive Waste Management
Teradyne manages end-of-life equipment in accordance
challenges our modern world faces, and with its
with waste electronics and electrical equipment legislation.
environmental, social and economic implications,
All Teradyne facilities are required to recycle electronics at
Teradyne acknowledges its responsibility to act. end- of-life; we do not dispose of any electronics in landfills.
The recyclers we use are audited to ensure they are complying
Our impact on the climate comes from our R&D
with applicable regulations. A designated list of approved
and manufacturing activities, supply chain and
recycling facilities is generated and provided to our facilities
the use of our products. for use globally. Teradyne reduces the waste impact of
our products through system upgrades, long-term repair
agreements and refurbishment programs to reduce
additional burden on the environment
Manufacturer Accountability
At our headquarters in North Reading, all waste is recycled,
Hazardous Substances Management
composted, or incinerated. We divert all waste from landfill.We
Teradyne actively manages the hazardous substances we allow
work to reduce the environmental impact of the material that
on site and in our products. Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs),
cannot be recycled by prioritizing waste disposal methodologies
Asbestos Containing Materials, Chlorinated Solvents, Class I
and employing audits of our waste disposal partners.
and II Ozone Depleting (ODC) substances, and substances of
very high concern (SVHC) are prohibited.
• S olid Waste Management-Teradyne has a goal to divert solid
waste from landfill. Currently, we recycle approximately 74%
Chemical Management
of our solid waste. This recycling includes paper, cardboard,
New chemicals must go through an approval process
metal (aluminum, steel, copper), wood pallets, plastic
before they are allowed into our facilities. New chemical
containers and other mixed container recycling. Our goal
use and restricted substances regulations are monitored
moving forward is to increase the amount of waste we are
and communicated to ensure we comply with all
collecting and diverting from landfill or incineration. Solid
applicable regulations.
waste is Teradyne’s largest waste stream.
32 Executive Summary About Teradyne CSR Vision Stakeholder Engagement Foundational Framework Sustainable Environment Our Solutions Social Engagement Ethical Governance Our Reporting
Energy & Climate (continued)
• E lectronics Recycling-All Teradyne facilities are required Workplace Solutions Future Plans
to recycle electronics at end-of-life. The recyclers we use
are audited to ensure they are complying with applicable Employee Health & Safety Teradyne is committed to managing business activities that
regulations. A designated list of approved recycling facilities Teradyne complies with all applicable regulatory health and could potentially impact the environment in a responsible
is generated and provided to our facilities for use globally. safety requirements wherever we operate. We conduct internal and effective manner. We continually strive to improve our
audits, regular reviews and monitoring of regulations to ensure environmental performance consistent with other business
• H azardous Waste Management-Teradyne produces minimal compliance with laws and regulations at the local, state, province objectives, to regularly set documented objectives and targets
amounts of hazardous waste. Many of our smaller offices and country levels. We ensure workers are provided with the for our company and our supply chain and to monitor progress
are prohibited from generating hazardous waste. We have knowledge to perform their jobs safely by deploying mandatory in achieving them.
a waste hierarchy we follow for disposal. All our hazardous EHS training. We also require contractors to complete safety
waste sites are audited to ensure they are in good standing training prior to doing work at any Teradyne site.
and in compliance with applicable regulations. We seek to
minimize our hazardous waste streams by assessing the Injury & Illness Reporting
products we use at the input end. Teradyne monitors, tracks and reports common safety metrics
such as accidents, near misses and illness. Our reportable injury
• I ndustrial/Building Waste-Waste from lighting retrofits and and illness rate in 2023 was below the industry average which
change out, battery backup replacement for our data and is 1.0.
computer systems and other facility waste, such as carpet,
produced during retrofits is recycled. Ergonomics
We provide our employees with flexible, adjustable
workspaces. This includes looking at ergonomics issues in
the workplace, educating employees to self-identify risks and
ensuring they have the work environment they need to do their
jobs effectively. We also provide training on how to set up your
workstation with proper ergonomics.
Working Flexibility
Teradyne provides flexible work hours for employees. Many of
Teradyne’s employees use alternatives to traditional Monday-
through-Friday work arrangements. These include part-time,
hybrid work arrangements and variable work schedules.
33 Executive Summary About Teradyne CSR Vision Stakeholder Engagement Foundational Framework Sustainable Environment Our Solutions Social Engagement Ethical Governance Our Reporting
OUR FACILITIES
Costa Rica
In the summer of 2021, we expanded
our operations in Costa Rica with the
completion of a new, larger building.
Construction started in 2020 and the
new facility of 118,704 square feet
opened in July 2021.
Costa Rica is one of the greenest countries in the
world, with 98% running on renewable energy; 67.5%
is hydropower, 17% wind, 13.5 % geothermal, 0.84%
biomass and solar panels, and the remaining ~2%
being backup power plants. Our new Costa Rica
office is growing rapidly and if there is future need
for expansion, we have an opportunity to secure
adjacent land.
34 Executive Summary About Teradyne CSR Vision Stakeholder Engagement Foundational Framework Sustainable Environment Our Solutions Social Engagement Ethical Governance Our Reporting
OUR FACILITIES
UR and MiR Cobot & AMR Hub
Universal Robots (“UR”) and Mobile The building was built with energy frame requirements future by using wood to improve the sustainability
Industrial Robots (“MiR”) broke and consistent with Danish building regulations. It has of the building. The FSC (Forest Stewardship Council)
3 layers of glass, heat will be reused from extraction, mark is a guarantee for wood that you can buy with
ground for their new 20,000 square
feature a night setback on heat, and the building has a clear conscience. In an FSC forest, no more wood is
meter headquarters located in the solar panels on its roof, totaling 715 square meters. felled than the forest can reproduce.
city of Odense, Denmark in 2022. The facility also as over 40 EV charging stations with
the ability to install more as more employees move to The new building has native tree species and shrubs,
The new facility opened in May, 2024
sustainable transportation. which provide plantings that fit well into the area’s
and Teams from MIR and UR are now existing plant belts. To the east and west, two attractive
working together in the space facility. The new construction is mainly made of wood products roof gardens have been installed, creating a link to the
for sustainable living. We want to help build a great outdoors for our employees.
The new headquarters is the world’s largest Cobot
(collaborative robot) & AMR (autonomous mobile
robot) hub and remain in the center of the world-class
Danish robotics industry. This new headquarters is just
down the road from the current UR headquarters and
not far from MiR’s headquarters.
More than 600 employees of MiR and UR have moved
into the new space, and the hub brings together the
innovative power and robotics expertise of both teams
into one physical location. The space also provides the
teams with room to grow.
35 Executive Summary About Teradyne CSR Vision Stakeholder Engagement Foundational Framework Sustainable Environment Our Solutions Social Engagement Ethical Governance Our Reporting
OUR SOLUTIONS
Teradyne products enable a cleaner environment,
a healthier population, and a more productive
economy
The Highlights
• We test the semiconductor chips that make fossil fuel
powered vehicles more efficient, power zero emission
electric automobiles, subways, trains and buses, enable
advanced communication systems that allow remote
working and learning and power the global economy.
• Our robots inspect and maintain commercial scale wind
turbines that eliminate fossil fuel powered electric plants.
• We test the electronics that power medical devices from
simple electronic thermometers to advanced imaging
and diagnostic tools.
• Our robots reduce repetitive stress and other
musculoskeletal related industrial injuries.
• Our zero-emission autonomous mobile robots move goods
in warehouse and industrial settings reducing the risk of
human injury from vehicle related crashes.
• At MiR, for every robot sold, we plant a tree. Every quarter,
MiR buys trees through the Danish organization Klimatræ.
36 Executive Summary About Teradyne CSR Vision Stakeholder Engagement Foundational Framework Sustainable Environment Our Solutions Social Engagement Ethical Governance Our Reporting
OUR SOLUTIONS
Working to Keep Their Communities Clean
Teradyne Japan Sponsors Volcano Trail Cebu Team Celebrates Arbor Day
In May 2023, Teradyne Japan sponsored the Aso Volcano Trail. Teradyne’s Kumamoto office in Japan is Teradyne Cebu organized a cacao planting and cacao growing activity again this year, after its first
located at the base of the outer rim of Mt. Aso. Aso is a region in Japan filled with volcanoes, including successful event in 2022. This year’s theme was called “Teradyne in Touch with Nature 2.0” in celebration
Mt. Aso. The initiative of the event is to support the grasslands, the highlight of Aso tourism, through of Arbor Day in 2023. At the event, 65 Teradyne volunteers, 19 senior boys’ and girls’ scouts of Talisay City
trail running. Teradyne sponsored the event as a bronze sponsor. National High School, members of the Jaclupan Farmers Association, and SEED4COM - an affiliated NGO,
took part in the planting and growing activity for cacao. Throughout the day, an estimate 300 grafted
The ASO volcano trail is a total of 112km.
cacao seedlings were planted.
A total of nine employees from the
Kumamoto office participated as Cacao has been known for its beans being used in the manufacture of chocolates. Cacao trees can
volunteers during the race. Volunteering grow up to six meters high, with a crown diameter of four to six meters. Based on its size, age and other
to support the event was a great factors, one cacao tree has the potential to sequester up to eighty-one pounds of carbon in its course
team-building experience for employees of existence. When mature, the three hundred cacao plants that were planted may store twelve tons of
to contribute to conserving the natural carbon and produce thirty-two tons of oxygen, which is enough to supply air for 34,805 people for a
environment of the area, and support day. Aside from that, cacao tree could yield about 2,500 cacao beans annually, giving an added source
Teradyne’s environmental initiatives. of living for Jaclupan farmers in the future. To plant a tree is to have hope for the future. Kudos to the
enthusiastic Teradyne Cebu volunteers who made this environmental initiative possible.
37 Executive Summary About Teradyne CSR Vision Stakeholder Engagement Foundational Framework Sustainable Environment Our Solutions Social Engagement Ethical Governance Our Reporting
OUR SOLUTIONS
Packaging, Product Innovation,
& Power and Energy
Consumption
Our Holistic Product Sustainability Strategy System Throughput — Directly Iimproves
per System Productivity and Efficiency
Efficiency and optimization are crucial elements in any
sustainability strategy — do more with less. Teradyne weaves The Teradyne product development roadmap prioritizes
that efficiency and optimization perspective into all aspects of industry-leading throughput, measured in units/hr and in units/
our product strategy, with the result being a holistic approach hr per square meter of floorspace. Teradyne’s system throughput
that promotes efficiency/sustainability through six levers: capability is built upon high per-system site count, high parallel
test efficiency, optimized test times, and modular architectures.
1. System throughput
2. Equipment utilization High per-system site counts and high parallel test efficiency
3. Test capability and quality Combined, these two system characteristics enable our
4. Factory and equipment automation capabilities equipment to test multiple devices in parallel in roughly the
5. Design Enhancements same amount of time it takes to test one device.
6. Data Analytics
Optimized test times
All Teradyne platforms have an established track record
of continually improving test time by leveraging product
innovations and the expertise of our applications teams.
Modular architectures
Teradyne is committed to Our modular designs allow individual test instruments or
continuously improving the sub-assemblies to be updated with higher performance/more
efficient modules over the system’s useful life, saving the cost
sustainability of our products.
and environmental burden of a complete system replacement.
38 Executive Summary About Teradyne CSR Vision Stakeholder Engagement Foundational Framework Sustainable Environment Our Solutions Social Engagement Ethical Governance Our Reporting
Packaging, Product Innovation, & Power and Energy Consumption (continued)
These innovations result in a more productive system with Test Capability and Quality • T he Sleep Mode capabilities were introduced on the
higher productivity per square meter of factory floor space. UltraFLEXplus in 2022, with similar power savings results –
Customers can achieve the same productivity levels with fewer Teradyne is recognized for our excellent test quality, built upon up to 80%. The product supports sleep mode at the
systems and a lower environmental cost per chip tested. a combination of people and products. Our Factory and Field test head and tester slot levels (i.e., sleep for the entire
Application teams collaborate with customers to develop a test head or specific test head instrument slots).
deep understanding of their needs and generate optimized
Enabling a Low Carbon Environment solutions. These solutions, including test methods and Our Archimedes Solution and AMP software/service enable these
techniques, leverage our instrument precision and accuracy, telemetry features and energy optimized operating modes. Our
Semiconductor fabrication facilities are high-volume environments comprehensive analysis tools, and software suites to offer customers can use these features to manage power consumption
that rely upon the up-time or availability of manufacturing customers best-in-class capabilities. and improve system maintenance practices, improving efficiency
equipment. Teradyne supports this market need by ensuring we and system uptime and reducing overall CO2 emissions.
design our products using several “Design for X” processes:
Factory and Equipment Automation
• R eliability: our product designs are reviewed for high Capabilities Product Design Enhancements
reliability, ensuring low failure rates.
Teradyne is enhancing our flagship products with telemetry As a regular part of our development practices, we evolve
• R epairability: intended to ensure that, when a repair is
and energy optimize operating modes. and enhance our product designs for optimized performance,
needed, it is simple and streamlined, and the repair time
scalability, adaptability, and efficiency. Our roadmap includes
is minimized (remove, replace, restart production). Test Cell Telemetry projects to:
Test cell telemetry is system status information formatted and
• M aintainability & Serviceability: minimize the effort and
communicated to allow the system and the operator to be • O ptimize product footprints to improve productivity per
time required to service and maintain the product in the
aware of the state of different test cell subsystems and the square meter of floor space and fit more capability onto
field, thus enabling short downtimes and long service life
peripherals with which Teradyne products interface. existing floor space.
for the equipment.
Energy-Optimized Operating Modes • O ptimize system and instrument scalability and granularity
These characteristics offer a two-fold advantage: first,
• O ur UltraFLEX and UltraFLEXplus testers support operating to suit different market needs.
improved system availability facilitates our customers’ efforts
modes consistent with the SEMI S23 standard operating
to optimize their factory floor operations and improve overall • C ontinue to improve the power density and efficiency
definitions of Process, Idle, and Sleep modes.
efficiency. Second, our products offer a long service life, which of our system infrastructure and instrumentation.
reduces electronics waste. • S ince 2019, the UltraFLEX has supported the equivalent
of the SEMI S23 Sleep mode that reduces test head power
consumption by up to 80% during periods of disruption
(e.g., factory workflow stopped for a holiday or a supply
line problem).
39 Executive Summary About Teradyne CSR Vision Stakeholder Engagement Foundational Framework Sustainable Environment Our Solutions Social Engagement Ethical Governance Our Reporting
Packaging, Product Innovation, & Power and Energy Consumption (continued)
Data Analytics — Archimedes Solution • Teradyne platforms offer the accuracy and precision Innovation, Energy Efficiency, Quality and Safety
measurement capabilities of battery management system
Intelligent use of product data and system telemetry enhances chips (BMS) that control and track the state of charge for EV’s Innovation is a key driver of long-term success. Our development teams,
our overall product sustainability and is used to: (electric vehicles) and BESS (battery energy storage systems). from field applications to design, test, and manufacturing apply their insights,
technical skill and creativity to develop industry leading products to meet the
• P rovide users with fleet status, health monitoring, and • O ur high-power systems also have the capabilities required performance, economic and schedule needs of our customers. To recognize
system scheduling capabilities (e.g., our Archimedes to test the high-efficiency power device and power module this innovative spirit and reinforce its value to all stakeholders, Teradyne’s CEO
Solution capabilities). technologies used in EV inverters and onboard chargers recognizes the achievement of one development team per quarter and one
(GaN and SiC technologies). per calendar year with a company-wide Innovation Award.
• E nable preventive and predictive maintenance features for
improved maintenance practices and system availability. • T ested with the leading Teradyne test capabilities, these
power management, charging, and conversion devices
• E xtract patterns from data that enable further throughput 2023 Innovation Award Winners
optimize vehicle range, support a stable and robust power
improvements, improve yields, and reduce material and
grid, and improve battery storage technologies’ overall
energy waste.
safety and reliability.
3 Teams
Storage Test Power Savings
Enabling a Low Carbon Environment
We continue to work to improve system power consumption
10 Employees
of our Storage Test products. Depending on the load condition,
Packaging
the second generation of these testers requires 15% to 20% less
For our UltraFLEX-Plus and ETS-800 platforms, Teradyne
power per year than the introduction of the product, resulting
utilizes a streamlined and robust packaging approach that
in lower emissions and operating costs for users.
reduces system packaging volume and weight compared to
traditional packaging practices. As a result, the packaging
Reduction of chemical waste and fab usage of chemicals
facilitates a lower CO2 impact per shipment and a reduced
hence reduction of scrap
New Patents for 2023
landfill impact.
Teradyne test system measurement capabilities allow
chip makers to verify chip quality, detect manufacturing
Supporting the transition to a lower carbon economy
anomalies, and repair and trim devices. This results in improved 56 Patents Filed Worldwide
Our systems support the transition to a low-carbon economy.
production yields  less device scrap  fewer wafers
We help ensure the quality of the components used in
112 Patents Granted Worldwide
needed  reduction in materials and chemicals used in the
electric vehicles (EVs), renewable electricity generation and
manufacturing process..
distribution, and communications and monitoring of the
1,655 Total Patent Library*
“smart grid.” For example:
*Excluding abandoned and expired
40 Executive Summary About Teradyne CSR Vision Stakeholder Engagement Foundational Framework Sustainable Environment Our Solutions Social Engagement Ethical Governance Our Reporting
Packaging, Product Innovation, & Power and Energy Consumption (continued)
Efficiency of Robotics We constantly balance power consumption with performance safety further, to make the overall workplace safer. These
to minimize energy use while meeting customer requirements. products apply advanced sensor technologies to enable
Our robotics are very efficient in loading or unloading a companies to improve quality and safety, deliver fast ROI
machine in a manufacturing or process environment. That Our modular designs allow individual test instruments or and free people from dirty, dull and dangerous tasks. Unlike
automation efficiency reduces system idle time and, therefore, sub-assemblies to be updated with higher performance traditional automation, our collaborative robots are safe to
power consumption, and can allow critical staff to focus on modules as needed over the course of the system’s useful work side-by-side with humans. They reduce repetitive stress
other tasks. life, saving the cost and environmental burden of a full injuries and eliminate dangerous, and sometimes fatal, material
system replacement.
handling vehicle crashes. Our robots enable manufacturers and
warehouse operators to improve the safety of their operations
Innovation, Energy Efficiency, Quality and Our development processes also use advanced simulation
and allow employees to do more valuable tasks.
Safety tools to model and refine thermal management strategies
to minimize the environmental impact of maintaining
Innovation is a key driver of long-term success. Our the stable temperatures required for accurate electrical
development teams, from field applications to design, test, test measurements. Environmental Impact and Sustainability
and manufacturing apply their insights, technical skill and Compliance
creativity to develop industry leading products to meet the
performance, economic and schedule needs of our customers. Quality European Union REACH
To recognize this innovative spirit and reinforce its value to all Teradyne is committed to the safe use and identification of
High-quality products begin with a commitment to quality
stakeholders, Teradyne’s CEO recognizes the achievement of chemicals per the requirements of EU REACH (Registration,
from a new product’s concept through the engineering design
one development team per quarter and one per calendar year Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals). Our
and production process. In the design process, we build on
with a company-wide Innovation Award. products are “articles” as defined in 3(3) of REACH, and do
over 60 years of experience in reliably solving the industry’s
not release substances under normal use. We do not have
toughest performance challenges. We comply with all
substances present in our products in quantities totaling
Energy Efficiency applicable safety and performance regulations in design and
over 1 tonne per year. None of the currently identified SVHCs
manufacturing operations, allowing us to deliver high-quality,
(substances of very high concern) on the European Chemical
In designing our products, we continually seek ways to reliable products designed for long service and supported by
Agency’s (ECHA) Candidate List are contained in Teradyne
maximize resources and increase the energy efficiency of lifetime maintenance, reducing their environmental impact.
products above the concentration specified. We are committed
our test and automation systems. We deliver continuous
to providing our customers with information regarding
efficiency improvements in our test solutions by improving the
substances of concern in our products and will continue
productivity of the equipment through reductions in test time Safety
to monitor our products under EU REACH.
and testing more devices simultaneously without
Product safety is usually associated with ensuring that the
a corresponding increase in power consumption. European Union RoHS
product doesn’t harm those in its proximity and all our
Teradyne is in compliance with the EU Restriction of Hazardous
This further reduces the energy consumption of the associated products meet that standard by design. However, our fixed
Substances (RoHS) Directive. Our wireless test products, bench
material handling equipment that is paired with our testers. and mobile automation products extend the concept of
41 Executive Summary About Teradyne CSR Vision Stakeholder Engagement Foundational Framework Sustainable Environment Our Solutions Social Engagement Ethical Governance Our Reporting
Packaging, Product Innovation, & Power and Energy Consumption (continued)
scale and automation equipment are in-scope and comply • Teradyne compiles information on all identified entities • Our supplier management includes surveys and audits and is
with the Directive. While our larger automated test equipment and verifies that those smelters/refiners do not source initially targeted to cover our top-tier suppliers, which addresses
is currently not included in the Directive, we are nonetheless from mines that support armed conflict. Teradyne relies approximately 80% of our supplier spending. As RBA Members,
working to remove restricted substances from all new designs. on the Responsible Business Alliance / Responsible we use tools to assure compliance by our supply chain with our
Minerals Initiative to audit smelters and refiners. If any supplier Environmental, Social and Governance goals.
identifies smelters/refiners associated with armed conflict in
Responsible Sourcing • Every night, we meticulously screen our top 99% suppliers,
their supply chain, Teradyne will take corrective action with
assessing their compliance with UFLPA Regulations. Leveraging
those suppliers to bring them back into RBA/RMI compliance.
• T eradyne’s responsible sourcing program requires OCR Screening and Kharon Clear View tools, we leave no stone
our suppliers to adhere to environmental and social unturned in our quest to identify potential red flags that may
responsibility principles. The program is based on the necessitate collaboration and improvement with our valued
SEMI Semiconductor Climate Consortium
Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) guidelines, the suppliers. This proactive approach to supplier engagement
California Transparency in Supply Chains Act of 2020, underscores our firm belief in fostering transparency,
As a Leadership Level Member of the SEMI Semiconductor
ISO 14001 and Teradyne’s Supplier Code of Conduct. accountability, and responsible business practices throughout
Climate Consortium, Teradyne fully supports their efforts to
our supply chain, solidifying our CSR commitment.
• A s an Affiliate Member of the RBA, Teradyne fully supports speed the semiconductor ecosystem’s response to the challenge
the vision and goals of the organization. of climate change by facilitating the industry’s efforts to reduce • T eradyne has a dedicated ESG manager who works directly
greenhouse gas emissions. Member companies, with their
with the Supply Chain Management team on all compliance
• Teradyne commits to progressively align its own operations accumulated knowledge and innovative technology, working
efforts. This ESG manager reports to the ESG Steering team
with the provisions of the RBA Code of Conduct, and to collaboratively will accelerate solutions to address industry
which meets regularly and reports to the CEO, CFO and Board
support and require its own first-tier suppliers to do the same. climate challenges that no one company alone can solve.
of Directors.
• W herever possible, Teradyne will seek to adopt the RBA
approach and tools in practical ways in the spirit of the Supplier Management
Product Lifecycle Management
industry’s common goals.
• T eradyne actively engages with our supply chain to manage
Teradyne’s support team provides repair and maintenance
• W e work with our suppliers to ensure that they responsibly risk and promote ethical and responsible practices; we are
services to maximize the lifetime of our solutions. We also offer
source materials. A key part of this is recognizing the a member of the RBA and follow RBA Supplier Guidelines.
upgrades and migration programs to further prolong the useful
potential adverse effects of sourcing tin, tungsten, tantalum The RBA is the world’s largest industry coalition dedicated
life of our equipment.
and gold (3TG) from the conflict regions in Africa. Our suppliers to corporate responsibility in global supply chains, and our
are required to track all 3TG used in their supply chain. Supplier Code of Conduct requires suppliers’ adherence to
both the RBA and Teradyne Codes of Conduct.
• A s part of Teradyne’s annual conflict minerals reporting
process, we work with our suppliers to identify all smelters
and refiners in our supply chain.
42 Executive Summary About Teradyne CSR Vision Stakeholder Engagement Foundational Framework Sustainable Environment Our Solutions Social Engagement Ethical Governance Our Reporting
Packaging, Product Innovation, & Power and Energy Consumption (continued)
Future Plans Teradyne will continue working with suppliers to enhance
their efforts in meeting our responsible sourcing goals. We will
Teradyne’s product development efforts also work on improvements to our company-wide supplier
management processes with new tools and platforms that will
will continue to identify opportunities for
allow us to engage more effectively with our global supply
reduction of direct power consumption and
chain on training, monitoring and compliance with our Supplier
increases in tester and industrial automation Code of Conduct.
productivity to support the continuous
We are excited to help the semiconductor industry, and society
growth of the industry while minimizing transition to a greener and more sustainable future. Teradyne’s
impact to the environment. holistic sustainability strategy results in products and services
that enable device manufacturers to improve productivity and
We will continue to meet compliance standards and deploy production yields with lower impacts for material use, energy
extensive quality and safety practices for our products. consumption, and a reduction in resulting CO2 emissions.
In developing new products, we will continue to use innovation
as an enabler to design for reliability, serviceability and long
product lifecycles, reducing our overall impact on the environment.
In 2021, we became a member of the RBA and expect to
continue implementing industry best practices of the RBA.
43 Executive Summary About Teradyne CSR Vision Stakeholder Engagement Foundational Framework Sustainable Environment Our Solutions Social Engagement Ethical Governance Our Reporting
CASE STUDY
How Cobots and AI are Being
Used to Revive Coral Reefs
In Western Australia, Coral Maker has
partnered up with Autodesk to develop a
system that uses collaborative robots (cobots)
from Universal Robots to help revitalize
the coral reefs of Australia. The company’s
founder Dr. Taryn Foster, dreams of scaling
the operation to have a world-wide impact
and bring color and life back to the sea.
How did it all start?
After a catastrophic coral bleaching event in her home
country, Australia, coral biologist Dr. Taryn Foster started the
company Coral Maker, and has since worked on rebuilding the
reefs that 25% of all marine species depend on. To follow this
dream of bringing back some of the coral reef that has been
lost and the biodiversity that comes with it, she needed help.
To combat the destructive effects of climate change on coral
reefs, Dr. Foster and her team at Coral Maker partnered up with
technology firm Autodesk to create an innovative solution for
44 Executive Summary About Teradyne CSR Vision Stakeholder Engagement Foundational Framework Sustainable Environment Our Solutions Social Engagement Ethical Governance Our Reporting
How Cobots and AI are Being Used to Revive Coral Reefs (continued)
reef rehabilitation using AI, vision systems, and cobots from corals per year would need to be processed and propagated Robotics also ensures that we can keep production running
Universal Robots. The project aims to harness the power of and picked and placed, and the cost becomes prohibitively around the clock and outside of working hours to meet the
collaborative robots and artificial intelligence to accelerate expensive” explains Dr. Foster “To get to that scale, we need need for larger scale efforts.”
coral propagation and restore fragile marine ecosystems. to automate the repetitive pick and place work and have
people doing the many other complex tasks in the process.” Dr. Foster explains that some of these tasks in coral
propagation are fairly simple, where the coral is picked up
Automating the propagation process
For Coral Maker, the need was for adaptive robotics that and placed on a spot of glue, or the plug is placed onto a
could work alongside humans, operate with precision, and coral skeleton.
The process of coral restoration involves transplanting tiny
recognize coral fragments, as each coral is different and
corals, cultivated in nurseries, onto damaged reef. This is
needs to be handled with care. This was achieved by using
done by grafting coral fragments into small plugs, that are
Autodesk’s Design and Make platform, that coupled with AI
then inserted into a molded stone base. However, the manual
and vision systems, trains the robots to locate, pick and place
work is labor intensive, slow, and costly, and only a fraction
the corals.
of the reefs at risk are getting help, so Dr. Foster needed a
way to automate the process. The solution came through a
“One of the main challenges is just bringing that cost down,
partnership with Autodesk, which used their software and
so that we can scale it up” said Dr. Foster “I think the only
Design and Make Platform to train robots to pick up the tiny
way we’re going to be able to do that is using automation
living corals and place them in the molds.
and then specifically collaborative robots, because a lot of
the work that we’ll be doing will involve people working
The use for collaborative robots interactively with robots.”
According to Dr. Foster, one of the biggest problems in coral
Senior Principal Research Scientist at Autodesk, Nic Carey,
reef restoration is that it’s hard to scale up, which would be
added: “The ability to scale restoration efforts is crucial, which
necessary for it to have an impact at an ecosystem level.
is where robots come in. Automation and robotics are often
used for large-scale manufacturing and product processing,
The Great Barrier Reef is tens of millions of hectares in size,
and if applied to coral restoration efforts, it could have a huge
and right now reef restoration projects are only restoring
impact. We are not able to scale efforts to meet the needs of
about one hectare per year. The obstacle that restoration
ecosystem scale restoration by doing these repetitive tasks
projects are facing is the cost of scaling up: “If we were to
manually, so partnering with robots enables marine biologists
do this at the scale that we need to be, tens of millions of
to focus on more complex tasks that cannot be automated.
45 Executive Summary About Teradyne CSR Vision Stakeholder Engagement Foundational Framework Sustainable Environment Our Solutions Social Engagement Ethical Governance Our Reporting
OUR SOLUTIONS
Business Continuity Program
Teradyne has consolidated Enterprise level Crisis Management
Business Continuity Plans for specific threats
Teradyne has a robust Crisis Management Strategy and
such as pandemics, natural disasters, the loss
implements the strategy to enable the company to continue
of a critical site, loss of a critical data center business operations after the unexpected interruption of
operations that causes a disruption that is beyond the
and other risks to continue delivery
scope of daily operating procedures and controls. A Global
of Teradyne’s products and services.
Crisis Management Team, composed of Executives and key
Infrastructure representatives, is alerted by our 24X7, 365
These plans have been expanded at the business and
days a year Global Security Response Center in the event
enterprise levels within the last two years. More detailed plans
of any crisis impacting a Teradyne site around the globe. If
have been developed by each business unit to address other
the crisis is localized to a specific region, the Global team
unplanned crises that could result in business interruption.
will relinquish management of the crisis to that Region’s
As an example, there are multiple product repair plans in
CrisisManagement Team (CMT). Likewise, if the crisis is
place in case of an interruption event for specific products
determined to have a local impact as opposed to enterprise
in Teradyne’s Costa Rica, Philippines, and China facilities.
impact, the management of the crisis is managed by the local
The business interruption process includes annual updates
CMT. Each strategic Teradyne location around the globe has
of contingency and mitigation plans. Teradyne continuously
a site CMT and Crisis Management Plan.
monitors the ongoing risks associated with maintaining
business continuity, develops mitigation plans and
implements these plans when necessary.
Disaster Recovery Plans
Each major Teradyne location around the globe also has
a Disaster Recovery Plan (DRP) based on the results of
aperiodic risk and hazard assessment. The site DRPs include
plans for command and control; damage assessment;
emergency response; recovery resources and plans;
communication plans, and more.
46 Executive Summary About Teradyne CSR Vision Stakeholder Engagement Foundational Framework Sustainable Environment Our Solutions Social Engagement Ethical Governance Our Reporting
OUR SOLUTIONS
Teradyne Global Security Brief
Teradyne’s Commitment to Security Teradyne’s Management of Security Risks
in a Connected World
• S ecurity Program: Products, Government, Physical and
Site, Cybersecurity, Data Privacy and Enterprise Risk
Teradyne tests and helps build the world’s
Management, and Supply Chain security programs.
most innovative products. We are committed
• S upporting Information Management Systems: National
to applying technology in ways that enhance
Institute of Standards & Technology (NIST) V1.1 Cyber
people’s lives. Security Framework
• Quality Management System: ISO 9001:2015
While technological advances help connect the world, ease of
communication, connected devices and integrated networks • E nvironmental Occupational Health & Safety
can create vulnerabilities that raise security and privacy Management System: ISO 14001:2015
concerns. Teradyne realizes it has the opportunity, as well
as responsibility, to apply technology in ways that advance
society in a secure way. Teradyne’s Product Security
Teradyne is committed to conducting business with honesty Teradyne’s Product Security Program is focused on
and integrity. Our programs, policies and procedures are the cybersecurity of all our company’s products and
designed to: services through:
• P rotect our stakeholders’ privacy and personal data • P rocesses and tools for vulnerability management
• Support employee safety, health, and security and code analysis
• Support company site safety and security globally • S tandards for secure product and solution definition,
development, manufacturing, and support
• Manage security risks to ensure business continuity
• S ecure design principles and coding practices
• Meet compliance requirements worldwide
implemented across product development
47 Executive Summary About Teradyne CSR Vision Stakeholder Engagement Foundational Framework Sustainable Environment Our Solutions Social Engagement Ethical Governance Our Reporting
OUR SOLUTIONS
Information Security Program
Teradyne’s Information Security Program Teradyne’s Information Security program includes Government Security Controls
functions such as:
applies a risk-based approach based on
Teradyne’s Government Security Program ensures the
• I ncident Detection and Response
industry standards and best practices.
company is compliant with U.S. Government and Department
• Security Engineering and Operations of Defense (DoD) directives, regulations and public laws
Our information security and cyber security operations and
• Vulnerability Discovery & Management pertaining to the protection and safeguarding of U.S. national
procedures include a comprehensive information security
defense information under the National Industrial Security
management system framework inclusive of all controls • Identity and Access Management Security
Program (NISP). As part of that program, Teradyne has
involved in our organization’s information risk management
• Insider Threat Management & Data Loss Prevention employees with security clearance at all levels to support
processes. This ensures that Teradyne maintains the
• Cyber resiliency & Crisis Planning our customers.
confidentiality, integrity and availability of information and
systems in our environment. • Information Security Policy Management Additionally, the Aerospace & Defense business is compliant
We continuously invest in our people, processes and tools • R isk Management; through vulnerability assessments, with the National Institute of Standards and Technology
to strengthen our security posture to protect Teradyne, penetration tests, and audits/assessments of our (NIST) requirements for the protection of Controlled
customer and other stakeholder data. control posture Unclassified Information. For non-U.S. regions, Teradyne
also maintains the appropriate levels of data protection and
Our Enterprise Information Security Steering Committee • Compliance Assurance
physical security on an as needed basis.
oversees our information security program and establishes
• Security Awareness and Education
and maintains effective lines of accountability, responsibility,
• I T Disaster Recovery; through a disaster recovery (DR)
and authority for protecting information assets. This
program that begins with a business impact analysis
Committee includes our Chief Information Officer (CIO)
(BIA) assessment (reviewed annually) and includes a
and our Chief Information Security Officer (CISO). The
documentation and testing requirement for everything
Committee’s work is reported quarterly to the Audit
in the BIA. Management oversight is required, data is
Committee and annually to the full Board of Directors.
captured in our inventory tool and posture is reported
to our Information Security Steering Committee.
48 Executive Summary About Teradyne CSR Vision Stakeholder Engagement Foundational Framework Sustainable Environment Our Solutions Social Engagement Ethical Governance Our Reporting
OUR SOLUTIONS
Physical & Site Security
Teradyne maintains a Global Security Site/Regional Security Policy
Operations Center, providing 24X7 support
Teradyne’s Global Security Management team is accountable
to ensure appropriate facility controls
for the implementation and execution of all elements of
are maintained, locations are monitored, this policy, as well as communicating specific business
accountabilities to business managers.
employees can request support and crisis
management procedures can be implemented
as needed to protect customer assets, our
Data Privacy
company and employees worldwide.
Teradyne’s Global Ethics and Compliance program includes
a robust Data Protection Program. We are committed to the
responsible collection, storage, use, transfer and disposal
Facility Controls
of personal data. Teradyne seeks to comply with applicable
data privacy laws wherever we do business, and respects
Teradyne facilities are secured with operational access at
individuals’ rights to privacy. Our Global Data Protection
entry points into the facilities and through controlled access
Program applies to all Teradyne legal entities worldwide.
areas in our facilities separate from public areas. Electronic
access controls are required for access to facilities and to
Teradyne’s Global Data Protection Program was created
designated areas within the facility based upon need. All
to ensure compliance with applicable data privacy laws.
access control badges are individually issued, and individuals
The Global Data Protection Program was established to
are required to use their own Teradyne-issued access devices
ensure inter-company consistency. We use the EU General
or credentials for entry into the facility or other designated
Data Protection Regulations (“GDPR”) as the baseline for
areas. All visitors and guests must be escorted by a Teradyne
data protection compliance. Because data has no borders,
employee.
Teradyne has implemented a global program that allows for
the sharing and use of data globally throughout the company
with minimal disruption to the business, in compliance
with applicable laws, and consistent with best practices
implemented by other global technology companies.
49 Executive Summary About Teradyne CSR Vision Stakeholder Engagement Foundational Framework Sustainable Environment Our Solutions Social Engagement Ethical Governance Our Reporting
Physical & Site Security (continued)
The Global Data Protection Program’s Policies, Procedures Data privacy is an important part of customer, business Teradyne’s Board Involvement
and Guidelines are designed to meet data privacy, legal and partner and supplier relationships. Our Privacy Policy
regulatory standards. Teradyne’s Privacy Policy sets forth the and principles, therefore, apply to all customers, business Teradyne’s Audit Committee reviews and assists the Board
enterprise-wide requirements for processing personal data partners and suppliers. Our Privacy Policy provides a detailed of Directors in overseeing significant information security,
with a commitment to compliance with applicable privacy description of how Teradyne collects, uses, shares, and cybersecurity and technology security risks and the steps
laws. protects their personal data. See Teradyne’s Privacy Policy management has taken to monitor and control such risks.
to learn more. Executives brief the Board of Directors quarterly on information
The Privacy Policy defines how Teradyne processes personal
security, cybersecurity, and technology security matters.
data in accordance with the following principles:
• Lawfulness/Fairness/Transparency
Enterprise Risk Management
• Purpose Limitation
Teradyne’s Information Security Training
Teradyne monitors ongoing risks associated with maintaining
• Data Minimization
business strategy and continuity, develops mitigation plans, Teradyne administers an Information Security awareness
• Accuracy
and implements plans as needed. Specific plans have been program focused on three types of mandatory training:
• Storage Limitation developed by various functions in the organization and are foundational, remedial, and targeted or role-based training.
periodically reviewed and updated based on global conditions Our foundational training is deployed annually to all
• Integrity and Confidentiality
or situations. Teradyne’s Audit Committee oversees and employees, contractors working on our behalf and executives.
• Accountability
annually reviews Enterprise Risk Management. We focus our foundational training in two areas: cyber
Employees who handle personal data as part of their work security and data protection. Our remedial training is required
The Teradyne Business Continuity Program addresses
are expected to be familiar with these principles and abide for any individuals with access to our environments who
specific threats including:
by them as well as the Privacy Policy and internal guidelines
• Pandemic were unable to recognize a simulated phishing attack and
related to processing personal data. In addition, Teradyne
immediately follows the simulation. Our role-based training is
maintains appropriate technical and organizational measures • Manufacturing
targeted at individuals in specific roles and is tailored to the
to protect personal data from unauthorized use or disclosure,
• Market disruptions
cyber risks related to that role.
including the transfer of personal data, and takes swift,
• Cyber Security
deliberate action to investigate and remedy any potential
data breach. • Geo-political impacts
• Natural Disasters
50 Executive Summary About Teradyne CSR Vision Stakeholder Engagement Foundational Framework Sustainable Environment Our Solutions Social Engagement Ethical Governance Our Reporting
SOCIAL ENGAGEMENT Our long-term success depends on
recruiting, developing, motivating
Our People and Communities and retaining talented colleagues
who share our passion for excellence.
For over 60 years, knowledge has powered
Teradyne’s success. Our unique understanding
of complex test and automation problems
combined with our culture of intellectual
rigor and creativity drives continued high
performance across our business and ongoing
professional development for our employees.
Key Focus Areas
This section showcases the key focus areas of our talent
attraction and talent retention strategies, including:
• T alent Acquisition, Talent Management and Training &
Development, which support both attracting and retaining
talented colleagues and the professional and personal
growth of employees and job candidates
• E mployee Well Being, which focuses on creating a
rewarding and fulfilling work environment
• C ommunity Engagement, which promotes our work with
the communities where our facilities are located
• D iversity, Equity & Inclusion, which describes our efforts to
support all employees and candidates to reach their
full potential
51 Executive Summary About Teradyne CSR Vision Stakeholder Engagement Foundational Framework Sustainable Environment Our Solutions Social Engagement Ethical Governance Our Reporting
SOCIAL ENGAGEMENT
Talent Acquisition, Talent Management
and Training & Development
Talent Acquisition and Retention Our leadership development programs emphasize skills
crucial for leading successful teams, including fostering
Teradyne forecasts our future talent requirements at all inclusivity and curiosity, and leveraging feedback, coaching,
levels 6-12 months in advance of need. The Human Resources and mentoring to enhance productivity.
(HR) team develops sourcing strategies to meet those
requirements which are leveraged in our hiring practices Our commitment to coaching and mentorship ensures that
for new employees to Teradyne and the growth and knowledge and skills are shared effectively throughout the
advancement of existing talent within our organization. organization, enabling us to stay responsive to key global
trends while fostering continuous development across all levels.
This is a dynamic process, but one that allows us to expand
existing pools and develop new pools of talent with sufficient By continually evaluating and adapting our development
lead time for the business. Teradyne actively monitors initiatives, we ensure our managers and colleagues, globally, are
employee turnover data and adjusts our policies and equipped with the necessary skills to thrive in dynamic work
programs, as necessary, to improve retention. For over ten environments, contributing to our collective growth and success.
years, Teradyne’s US turnover rate has been lower than the
Globally, over 98% of Teradyne employees complete
benchmark of our peers.
coursework on our values and code of conduct, learning more
about our products and tools, and almost 38,000 modules
focused on personal development. In 2023, 100% of our newly
Manager and Colleague Development
hired or promoted front-line people managers participated
in various foundational people management development
We prioritize the continuous development of our managers and
training modules.
colleagues to ensure their long-term success and the overall
success and strength of our teams. We offer tailored training
programs that cover essential leadership skills, effective
communication strategies, and conflict resolution techniques.
52 Executive Summary About Teradyne CSR Vision Stakeholder Engagement Foundational Framework Sustainable Environment Our Solutions Social Engagement Ethical Governance Our Reporting
SOCIAL ENGAGEMENT
Performance Reviews
Performance Reviews Internship Program
To ensure we maintain a strong, competitive workforce, We are committed to recruiting and developing talent at the
our employees participate in annual performance reviews. collegiate level to help build and maintain a candidate pool
Employees and managers look back on the previous year, for future hiring needs. Our paid internships offer real-world
review career development plans and create goals for the experience to diverse and talented students. Our Internship
year ahead. Annual goals are reviewed periodically during and Co-Op programs involved 56 students from 32 schools
the year providing an opportunity for additional feedback, in 2023 and wages were substantially higher than local
support, or goal modification, as needed. We have processes minimum wage rates.
and training in place for a global, consolidated performance
management approach used by 100% of Teradyne employees.
In 2023, our employees set over 25,000 goals in total with
Co-Op Program
an average of 4.5 goals per employee.
Our paid Co-Op program offers higher education students
a unique learning opportunity. These students alternate one
Educational Assistance semester in a work assignment and one semester in the
classroom. Work assignments progress in difficulty as the
Teradyne offers tuition assistance of up to $5,250 per year students advance academically.
for educational courses related to an employee’s work or
as part of a degree program, including tuition, lab fees and
learning resources.
53 Executive Summary About Teradyne CSR Vision Stakeholder Engagement Foundational Framework Sustainable Environment Our Solutions Social Engagement Ethical Governance Our Reporting
SOCIAL ENGAGEMENT
Employee Well-Being
Compensation and Benefits prevention and pay equity policies. All employees receive Employee Surveys
annual training in Teradyne’s Code of Conduct which
Teradyne offers its employees competitive compensation outlines expected standards and guidelines of conduct in One of Teradyne’s core values is ‘A Company Without Doors.’
programs and benefits plans designed to meet the needs the workplace and in all business- related activity. New This tenet reinforces our culture of open and transparent
of employees and their families, including gender pay equity, employees, contractors, interns and co-ops also complete communication with no organizational limitations. In addition,
parental leave, health insurance coverage and flexible work new hire Code of Conduct training which introduces the we conduct regular company-wide employee surveys. Our
arrangements. We also enable all permanent employees to conduct standards and guidelines for employees to follow 2021 participation rate was 82%. Our 2023 participation rate
share in the success of the company through contributions to demonstrate our values of honesty and integrity. was 93%. Our survey reported an engagement score of 83%
to retirement savings and a stock purchase program (where which is significantly higher than the global benchmark score
local laws allow). of 76%. Our Human Resources team also conducts regular
anonymous employee “pulse” surveys to check in with our
Most employees are also able to participate in profit sharing Workforce Planning
global workforce and get their input on topical issues. The
plans. Teradyne offers dependent care for many employees
feedback we receive from these surveys helps us to assess
Teradyne completes extensive, quarterly workforce planning to
through plans that provide pre-tax benefits to pay for
employee sentiment, identify areas for improvement and
understand our staffing needs. We use a deliberate combination
dependent care and relationships with care providers who
guide our decision-making as it relates to Talent Management
of permanent employees with a smaller percentage of contract
can cover emergency or holiday care. Teradyne also allows
and Training & Development.
resources which allows us to effectively manage business
special leave such as family and military leave for employees.
needs while minimizing the need for reductions in force or
These benefits are determined by the regulations and markets
redundancies. Teradyne’s departments that utilize temporary
for the various countries in which Teradyne operates.
contract resources have practices to convert those resources Executive Engagement
to full-time as positions become available.
Teradyne’s CEO and other executives frequently meet
Positive Work Environment Other contract resources are hired for specialized skills or with employees through monthly exchange meetings and
to support short-term projects such as during high-volume quarterly ‘town hall’ webcasts. The exchange meetings
Maintaining a safe and productive workplace is a shared work periods. Additionally, in the limited instances when allow the executives to directly interact with a small group
responsibility for all employees so that people feel inspired, workforce restructuring includes redundancies, Teradyne of employees (15 or fewer employees), while the global
supported, safe and able to achieve their personal best. provides benefits to those impacted, based on local regulations webcasts enable all employees to engage with senior leaders
We are committed to promoting equality in the workplace, and market standards, such as severance pay, garden leave, and ask questions in an open Q&A session Board Members
as evidenced by our nondiscrimination, sexual harassment career services, etc. also meet with employees throughout the year.
54 Executive Summary About Teradyne CSR Vision Stakeholder Engagement Foundational Framework Sustainable Environment Our Solutions Social Engagement Ethical Governance Our Reporting
Employee Well-Being (continued)
Speaker & Seminar Series Scholarships
Teradyne regularly hosts speakers from the communities In addition to the financial assistance to employees noted
where we work to discuss timely issues and topics of broad previously, Teradyne awards 35 competitive scholarships
employee interest like work/life balance, retirement planning, annually to the children or grandchildren of employees to
and success in the workplace. Sessions have included Dr. attend a two or four-year college, university or vocational/
Tiffany Jana (a renowned Diversity Expert) who spoke about technical school.
managing bias and building relationships across differences,
and Anne Grady (a global resilience authority and Ted Talk
presenter) who spoke about resilience and how to reset your
Addressing Employee Issues
mind when facing difficult situations.
Teradyne is committed to supporting our employees’ success.
In addition, we regularly host financial management and
When we fall short of this commitment, our HR partners
personal wellness-related seminars.
closely work with employees to address any workplace
complaints. The process follows local laws and guidelines
to allow employees to escalate their situation and find a fair
Employee Resource Groups and suitable resolution.
Teradyne supports and encourages employees to network Employees can also use a Whistleblower hotline to raise
and connect with colleagues who share similar life workplace compliance complaints to management and
experiences and interests. We currently have five active the board.
global groups many of which have local chapters in different
countries. We currently have almost 300 employees and allies
participating in ERGs and continue to grow this important
engagement tool.
Our groups include new employees to Teradyne (NEW2TERA),
Veteran’s Resource Group, a women’s group (Women in
Teradyne) , and LGBTQ+ advocates (Pride QUEST.) More
examples and details follow in the DEI highlights.
.
55 Executive Summary About Teradyne CSR Vision Stakeholder Engagement Foundational Framework Sustainable Environment Our Solutions Social Engagement Ethical Governance Our Reporting
SOCIAL ENGAGEMENT
Community Engagement
Teradyne has an active philanthropy program Community Support • U nited Negro College Fund, which supports people of color
in higher education. UNCF is the nation’s largest and most
to provide support to the communities in
Teradyne provides annual financial support to organizations effective minority education organization with a mission
which we operate.
that are making positive impacts in the communities where to build a robust and nationally recognized pipeline of
we work, and in society at large. underrepresented students who become highly qualified
college graduates.
Examples include:
Support of Employees’ Volunteer Activities
• N ational Society of Black Engineers, which supports and
and Donations • B uilding Minds Scholarship Fund, which supports K-12
promotes people of color in engineering roles. NSBE’s
education in at-risk communities. The organization raises
mission is to increase the number of culturally responsible
Teradyne matches up to $1,000 per year of employee money to provide families in financial need the support to
Black Engineers who excel academically, succeed
financial donations to non-profit organizations focused provide their children with a quality education and chance
professionally and positively impact the community. It
on improving health, wellness, education, our environment, for a bright future.
helps to build a competitive pipeline of diverse talent and
and disaster relief.
transformative programs for scholars, emerging engineers,
• R esilient Coders, which supports software coding
and professionals.
bootcamps for people of color. Resilient Coders provide
people of color with the skills and tools they need to excel
Support of STEM Education
for high growth careers in the tech space.
Research Grant Program
Advancing education for future generations is a primary
• N AACP Legal Defense and Education Fund, which supports
initiative at Teradyne. We support Science, Technology,
social justice initiatives. The NAACP Legal Defense Fund is Teradyne’s Grant Program supports academic researchers
Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) programs at the
America’s premier legal organization that uses the power of investigating new ideas in electronics and robotics. Individual
middle, high school and collegiate level ranging from middle
law, narrative, research, and people to defend and advance grant values range from a few thousand dollars to over a
and high school robotics competitions to college scholarships,
the full dignity and citizenship of Black people in America. hundred thousand dollars based on research complexity.
to underwriting university programs to increase the diversity
Researchers, students and others in academia are welcome
of STEM graduates. We also donate test equipment and • S cience Club for Girls, whose mission is to foster
to submit proposals.
robots to colleges, universities or vocational programs to excitement, confidence, and literacy in science, technology,
provide students with hands-on experiences that directly engineering, and mathematics (STEM) for girls and gender-
apply to what they’re learning in the classroom. expansive youth from underrepresented communities by
providing free, experiential programs and by maximizing
meaningful interactions with women-in-STEM mentors.
56 Executive Summary About Teradyne CSR Vision Stakeholder Engagement Foundational Framework Sustainable Environment Our Solutions Social Engagement Ethical Governance Our Reporting
SOCIAL ENGAGEMENT
Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion
At Teradyne, we believe that fostering a We know that a successful workplace of the future embraces
diversity and prioritizes inclusion as key areas of focus. Our
diverse, equitable and inclusive culture will
areas of focus continue our commitment to STEM education
build a stronger and more resilient company for
and advocacy make STEM majors more accessible to a
our employees, customers and communities. diverse array of students in high school and in college.
Our DEI program focuses on: We are committed to broadening the pool of talented
candidates we recruit for Teradyne jobs as well as improving
• S trategy and actions to improve opportunities for the overall candidate experience. We have been extremely
under-represented populations at Teradyne in hiring, active in heightening our engagement and retention programs
advancement, and leadership development including to ensure we provide our employees with opportunities for
expanded learning opportunities for all employees in connection and deepen our opportunities to learn about not
diversity, equity, inclusion, and managing diverse teams. only our differences, but what we also have in common.
• T hrough recruiting efforts, we hope will enhance our Equitable career development programs for women and
ability influence potential candidates to see Teradyne as underrepresented groups within Teradyne is one mission
an employer of choice. With improvements to campus that is crucial to our future success and formulation of these
recruiting program, employer branding, and providing programs are underway. We are holding ourselves accountable
diversity tools and training for Teradyne recruiters and by continuing to track our metric performance and focus on
hiring teams worldwide, we are diligently working to areas to provide insight that is transparent, easy to understand,
acquire highly talented candidates that will be an asset to and actionable.
Teradyne today and in the future.
We are committed to doing the work that ensures our
• M onitoring workforce demographic metrics, comparing employees and customers feel seen, heard, and included, but
them to benchmarks and using this data to drive most of all, know that all are valued. We know that driving
improvement throughout the organization. sustainable changes in diversity and inclusion will require
time, patience, persistence, and the power to listen with
• P hilanthropic support of STEM organizations and initiatives
humility and learn from our shared experiences. All the work
driving DEI including academic, economic, career and
we have done has created a solid foundation for our future
social justice opportunities.
and we are confident we can improve our efforts with our
Teradyne tenacity to achieve the outcomes we desire.
57 Executive Summary About Teradyne CSR Vision Stakeholder Engagement Foundational Framework Sustainable Environment Our Solutions Social Engagement Ethical Governance Our Reporting
SOCIAL ENGAGEMENT
Engagement & Retention
We recognize that recruiting diverse talent Employee Resource Groups Each group has an Executive Sponsor to mentor and
advocate for their ERG. The Executive Sponsor’s role is clearly
and retaining those employees is critical to
• W e have supported our employees at every level to take defined to include:
Teradyne’s long-term success.
ownership of DEI by creating Employee Resource Groups
(ERGs) to improve the sense of belonging and inclusion • A ctively and visibly model the company DEI values
Teradyne consistently has higher retention rates than our of our colleagues. Some of these groups are global and behaviors.
peer group. However, we are not sitting still. We have added
while others are location or region specific. ERGs are an
programs to keep employees engaged in the business, • S erve as a visible and vocal advocate of the ERG when
important cross-organizational, employee-led initiative to
engaged with fellow employees and updated company-wide interacting with peers and other leaders internally
help foster an inclusive culture. We are exceptionally proud
best practices related to DEI. These programs include: and externally.
of how passionately our employees have rallied around
these groups. • Meet with ERG leaders on a regular basis to discuss topics like
mentorship, leadership, activity planning and coffee chats.
• W e believe a strong Employee Resource Group program
is one component of an inclusive company culture. • W ork with the ERG to determine how this role can
Employee resource groups are groups of employees who best support the group from a business perspective,
join in their workplace based on shared characteristics or communications and messaging, finances, and resources.
life experiences. All our ERGs are supported by executive
sponsorship, demonstrating that the organization stands • E ncourage the active participation and engagement
Our Employee Resource Groups are behind the ERGs and offers support, guidance, budget, of other leaders to grow membership and allyship; and
mentoring, visibility and networking to support the ERGs
the heartbeat of our company culture, • K ick off and participate in ERG-initiated events and
in their success.
attend or speak during events managed and/or sponsored
driving innovation, promoting diverse
by their ERG.
perspectives, and creating a sense of
belonging for all employees
58 Executive Summary About Teradyne CSR Vision Stakeholder Engagement Foundational Framework Sustainable Environment Our Solutions Social Engagement Ethical Governance Our Reporting
Engagement & Retention (continued)
Our Employee Resource Groups Include:
NEW2TERA Women in Teradyne
This group’s purpose is to improve onboarding experience for new This group empowers women’s voices with the goal of promoting diversity,
employees and make it easier to assimilate into the company’s culture, equity, and inclusion at Teradyne, by providing company-wide and site-
discuss unknowns about the company or benefits, share new hire wide networking opportunities for women with their peer set, sponsoring
perspectives and learn about the tips and tricks for success at work. opportunities for personal and professional growth, coordinating
opportunities for STEM outreach targeted toward women and girls, and
encouraging and maintaining a culture of inclusion at Teradyne.
We have formed a new partnership with The Global Semiconductor
Pride QUEST
Alliance’s Women’s Leadership Institute. This is key for us to have the
This group’s mission is to improve the inclusivity of our office culture ability to offer programing that is specific to the semiconductor industry.
and workplace environment— where folks can be themselves, affect The GSA Women’s Leadership Institute provides a platform for networking
changes in company policy to be more inclusive and gain insight and collaboration with other industry leaders, including women executives,
into the LGBTQ+ community. We find it is important for LGBTQ+ entrepreneurs, and other professionals. We expect to leverage WLI’s global
communities to be visible to inspire new members, allies and anyone reach to their reach, find opportunities to demonstrate leadership skills, and
who wants to learn more about the LGBTQ+ community. stay on top of emerging trends and best practices in our field. Teradyne
Mentorship Circles are powered by the ingenuity of Women in Teradyne and
has successfully completed its second year of service. The program is set to
become global in 2025.
59 Executive Summary About Teradyne CSR Vision Stakeholder Engagement Foundational Framework Sustainable Environment Our Solutions Social Engagement Ethical Governance Our Reporting
Engagement & Retention (continued)
Our Employee Resource Groups Include:
Veterans Resource Group
The Veterans Resource Group (VRG) is for members of the military community,
family members that share experiences and allies who support the Veteran
community. The group supports employees who served and is planning a
community outreach program to assist veterans with career support and
physical or mental health support. Additionally, our VRG often provides
feedback to organizational leaders on issues that are important to Veterans.
In 2023, Teradyne was honored as a 2023 VETS Indexes
Recognized Employer. VETS Indexes is the world’s first
resource for U.S. veteran themed indexes, with a mission to
provide innovative solutions that recognize the value created
by the mission-critical mindset, unique skills, and specialized
training that veterans bring to the workplace.
60 Executive Summary About Teradyne CSR Vision Stakeholder Engagement Foundational Framework Sustainable Environment Our Solutions Social Engagement Ethical Governance Our Reporting
SOCIAL ENGAGEMENT
Expanded Learning &
Personal Development Program
The Learning and Person Development Internal Learning Modules Improved Onboarding Process
Program is designed to further develop our
• Unconscious Bias We are committed to improving the experience of our new
DEI leadership and awareness.
employees by pursuing a consistent On-Boarding process.
• Understanding Bias in Recruiting
This includes creating onboarding enhancements that will
The program is focused on: • Allyship
highlight Employee Resource Groups, learning resources
and the ways new hires can feel welcomed and valued on
• I ncreasing the awareness of leadership development
their first day. Additionally, we monitor the progress of new
training and other personal development learnings related
Learning Experiences employees through their first 90 days.
to DEI concepts, through focused learning efforts, targeted
communications and intranet postings, within affinity
• M ckinsey and Company
groups and townhalls.
– McKinsey Academy – Unlocking the Potential of Women
• C reating guidelines/criteria for participation of approved – LinkedIn Learning
external events and conferences that would benefit women • Personal Development Workshops
and underrepresented groups, align to overarching DEI • Conferences for Women - Learning Toolkits
goals, personal development growth, and networking • Society of Women in Engineering
opportunities. • Teradyne Speaker Series
• Developing Cultural Intelligence in the Workplace
• G lobal Semiconductor Alliance – Women’s Leadership
Initiative – Women in Hardware Mentorship Program
Training and Workshops are an ongoing part of our DEI
program. Activities to date have been focused on awareness
but will soon move into a forming stage where more
structured accountability for DEI training will be essential.
61 Executive Summary About Teradyne CSR Vision Stakeholder Engagement Foundational Framework Sustainable Environment Our Solutions Social Engagement Ethical Governance Our Reporting
SOCIAL ENGAGEMENT
Colleague Development
New Learning Management System Career development opportunities
Teradyne’s Learning Management System offers Developing our team is crucial to the sustained success of
business training courses to employees. our business. We offer various career paths and have tools
in place to support career navigation of our employees. This
This includes topics such as:
is supported through our annual performance management
process which begins with goal setting, including
• Project management
development goals, periodic check-ins between managers
• Electrical safety
and employees and year-end performance appraisals.
• Engineering standards
Our career paths include opportunities for employees to grow
• Product and sales
their technical skills and advance to more senior individual
contributor roles guiding our product development and
opportunities to transition to management roles.
For those transitioning to a management position, we
offer robust leadership training to develop the skills and
competencies as leaders such as:
• Goals management
• Feedback and coaching
Our workforce stayed about the same
• Difficult interactions
in 2022 as compared to 2023, with a
• Performance Appraisals
small decrease of 12 employees from
• Career coaching
6,553 full time employees in 2022 to
6,541 in 2023. We are consistently looking into new ways we can improve
how to help our employees identify opportunities for
professional development within Teradyne.
62 Executive Summary About Teradyne CSR Vision Stakeholder Engagement Foundational Framework Sustainable Environment Our Solutions Social Engagement Ethical Governance Our Reporting
SOCIAL ENGAGEMENT
Hiring, Professional Development & Advancement
Our efforts to increase the diversity of our Worcester Polytechnic Institute (WPI) Academy, RAMP programs (Research, Academics and
Teradyne’s support includes the Louis Stokes Minority Scholar Mentoring Pathways to Success) and the Soars programs for
hires have included the deployment of tools
Program, Engineering Ambassador Program which provides incoming first-generation students from under-represented
and training to help increase the diversity
STEM role models to urban middle and high school students, communities, Student Veteran support services, high school
of job applicants. Women’s Research and Mentorship Program and Girls Who and community college recruiting of women and under-
Code which both target pre-collegiate STEM students, the represented minorities in STEM, Honors College Fellowships
We analyze job descriptions for equitable and inclusive Office of Multicultural Affairs supporting first generation for STEM projects, and support of the UML Chapter of the
language and resume search tools that assist our recruiters students from underrepresented communities, and student National Society of Black Engineers.
with identifying diverse candidates for open positions. We chapters of the National Association of Black Engineers and
have also provided training for our hiring managers and Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers. San Jose State University
interview teams with the goal of eliminating biases in the The student body is 83% people of color and 42% first
recruiting process. We continue to monitor and increase Wentworth Institute of Technology (WIT) generation to attend college. Teradyne supports the Math
the diversity of our interview panels as well. Teradyne’s support includes the Women at Wentworth Engineering Science Achievement (MESA) programs on
Endowed Scholarship Fund, the RAMP Pre-College Summer campus. These include engineering specific programs along
We also ensure the on-boarding experience for under- Bridge Program to assist first-generation students from with programs to engage and inform under-represented high
represented populations is welcoming and effective by Boston with their transition into college and engineering, the school students about career opportunities in STEM. We also
training both new and experienced managers in the critical BEACON PATHWAYS Early College and Career Program which support the Exceed Bridge program to increase the success
role that they play in building a diverse team. Courses include enables underserved, local high school students to take WIT of first-generation scholars and provide support to student
‘Understanding the Basics of DEI’ and ‘The Power of Allyship.’ foundational coursework and build credit towards a STEM chapters of NSBE, SHPE, SWE, and SASE.
degree while still in high school, and the student chapters
Teradyne has a robust model for engaging our university
Teradyne and UNCF STEM Scholarship Program
of the National Society of Black Engineers and Society of
partners to support programs that expand the number of We offer scholarships to students through our partnership
Hispanic Professional Engineers.
diverse students in STEM degree programs and provide with UNCF that directly address the financial needs of
assistance to increase their academic success. These include: The University of Massachusetts at Lowell (UML) students attending an HBCU or minority-serving institution.
Teradyne’s support includes the Multicultural Affairs Student By the end of 2023, the UNCF Teradyne STEM Scholarship
programming supporting the onboarding of the following has been given to thirty students attending these institutions.
under-represented communities, support of at-risk first-
generation students through the River Hawk Scholars
63 Executive Summary About Teradyne CSR Vision Stakeholder Engagement Foundational Framework Sustainable Environment Our Solutions Social Engagement Ethical Governance Our Reporting
SOCIAL ENGAGEMENT
Monitoring Workforce Demographics & Retention
Teradyne publishes our annual U.S. Equal Setting a baseline for our focus We used the BLS detailed occupation data and rigorously
Employment Opportunity Commission Report compared this to the specific job types and frequencies that
We have created a custom benchmark using data from the exist at Teradyne to create our own internal benchmark.
EEO-1. The EEO-1 reflects the diversity of our
U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), which we believe is
U.S. workforce for calendar year 2023. a more accurate representation of the available, relevant This gives us confidence that we have proper and realistic
talent pool for which Teradyne is trying to help grow and comparisons for our U.S. populations relative to the available
Our HR team monitors the demographics of both our existing attract. The BLS has job categories broken down in a way that talent in the U.S. As described earlier, Teradyne is supporting
employee population and new hires in order to provide insight matches Teradyne’s job functions. For example, BLS offers university-led programs to increase the pool of diverse
into the effectiveness of our ongoing improvement actions. data for the same engineering job families that Teradyne STEM talent.
We also monitor retention as an indicator of overall employee has – software, hardware, and mechanical – which allows us
satisfaction and the competitiveness of our compensation to include in our calculation of available talent individuals in
and benefits programs. those jobs while allowing us to exclude other engineering
roles such as chemical and biomedical.
Our work to improve the diversity of Teradyne is guided
by data which shows the areas where we can improve the
most. We see an opportunity to significantly improve on the WORKFORCE REPRESENTATION (U.S.)
number of women and Black/African American employees in
Category BLS Custom Benchmark Teradyne as of Dec 31, 2023
our U.S. workforce and management.
This table shows the available talent
Women 26.6% 18.96%
pools for the gender and race/ethnicity
We recognize that in order to achieve these results, sustained
Men 74.1% 80.99% Teradyne-BLS benchmark categories that
and deliberate focus is required. Therefore, those populations
we have compiled and how our Teradyne
are the initial focus of our efforts. U.S. workforce compares as of December
White 74.4% 61.79%
31, 2023.
Asian 16.0% 26.64%
Black/African American 6.7% 2.26%
Hispanic or Latino 9.6% 5.61%
Undeclared 0.54%
64 Executive Summary About Teradyne CSR Vision Stakeholder Engagement Foundational Framework Sustainable Environment Our Solutions Social Engagement Ethical Governance Our Reporting
Monitoring Workforce Demographics & Retention (continued)
To date, we have seen limited but more effective progress WOMEN (GLOBAL) WOMEN (US) BLACK & AFRICAN AMERICAN (US)
with regards to our population of women. We continue to
Teradyne Population 2023 Teradyne Population 2023 Benchmark Teradyne Population 2023 Benchmark
evaluate our efforts and identify additional improvement
Overall 24.7% Overall 19.0% 26.6% Overall 2.4% 6.7%
ideas to explore. We continually seek to learn from our
Managers 20.8% Managers 17.3% 26.5% Managers 2.6% 6.1%
successes, such as hiring more women in senior leadership
positions in 2023, while also focusing on areas where we Individual Contributors 25.4% Individual Contributors 19.5% 26.6% Individual Contributors 2.3% 6.9%
continue to struggle, such as hiring more Black and African
American employees. Teradyne Hiring 2023 Teradyne Hiring 2023 Teradyne Hiring 2023
Overall 32.6% Overall 28.1% Overall 3.0%
In addition to monitoring the diversity of our workforce in the
U.S., we also track the representation and hiring of women Managers 27.0% Managers 35.7% Managers 0.0%
globally. The tables to the right compare the Teradyne U.S. Individual Contributors 33.0% Individual Contributors 27.5% Individual Contributors 3.3%
population and U.S. hiring for women and Black and African
American employees to the custom BLS benchmark.
TERADYNE WOMEN (U.S.) TERADYNE BLACK & AFRICAN AMERICAN (U.S.)
EEO Category 2023 EEO Category 2023
1.1 Executives/Senior Level Officials and Managers 5.3% 1.1 Executives/Senior Level Officials and Managers 0.0%
1.2 First/Mid-Level Officials and Managers 20.3% 1.2 First/Mid-Level Officials and Managers 2.5%
2 Professionals 17.9% 2 Professionals 1.8%
3 Technicians 16.1% 3 Technicians 4.8%
4 Sales Workers 10.5% 4 Sales Workers 2.6%
5 Administrative Support Workers 80.0% 5 Administrative Support Workers 10.0%
6 Craft Workers 0.0% 6 Craft Workers 0.0%
7 Operatives 28.1% 7 Operatives 6.3%
8 Laborers and Helpers 0.0% 8 Laborers and Helpers 0.0%
9 Service Workers 0.0% 9 Service Workers 0.0%
The table above shares data on the EEO women representation The table above shares data on the EEO Black or African American
within Teradyne’s U.S. population. The tools and actions described representation within Teradyne’s U.S. population. Similar actions are
earlier in this section are being deployed as a priority to improve the underway to improve the representation of this group at Teradyne.
representation of women in Teradyne.
65 Executive Summary About Teradyne CSR Vision Stakeholder Engagement Foundational Framework Sustainable Environment Our Solutions Social Engagement Ethical Governance Our Reporting
Monitoring Workforce Demographics & Retention (continued)
Employment Retention*
2021 2022 2023 YOY Change
89.5 90.1 90.2 +0.1
% % % %
Employee
Retention Rate
11.3 8.7 8.7 flat
Avg Service
Years**
*Global Data
**Average length of service of the current active employees at the end of the stated year
66 Executive Summary About Teradyne CSR Vision Stakeholder Engagement Foundational Framework Sustainable Environment Our Solutions Social Engagement Ethical Governance Our Reporting
SOCIAL ENGAGEMENT
STEM Education & Advocacy
Helping to create diversity in STEM programs Community Programs Institute had led the way toward fostering a culture of
Community programs working to improve the education belonging and helping its members create pathways for
is a strategic initiative to build more diversity
and career opportunities for people from under-represented women in our organization to lead in environments where
in the candidate pools from where we
groups. In addition to company financial support, Teradyne everyone feels included in the semiconductor, engineering
ultimately hire new employees. employees regularly volunteer their time and effort to and manufacturing community. In 2023 our CEO Greg Smith
help their local communities. This includes community signed the CEO Pledge with WLI.
Teradyne is supporting organizations and initiatives, both fundraising events, student mentoring, judging STEM-related
financially and through outreach, that promote diversity, equity competitions, guiding robotics teams and more. In 2023 Teradyne sponsored the Massachusetts Conference
and inclusion in the communities in which we live and work. for Women and the California Conference for Women for
the fifth year in a row. Both conference experiences offer
We are dedicated to increasing access to higher education Teradyne employees opportunities for business networking,
Providing Support to Organizations
for underrepresented groups, including African Americans, professional development and personal growth. In addition
and Initiatives for DEI
low-income students, and first-generation college students. to Teradyne women employees and select college students,
By partnering with UNCF for STEM scholarships, Teradyne is we also invite senior male managers and executives to the
In addition to providing financial and employee support to
contributing to promoting diversity and inclusion in the STEM conference to expand their understanding of the issues
increase the diversity of STEM college graduates, Teradyne
fields. In 2023, we award 14 $5K scholarships to academically women face in the global workplace.
regularly supports organizations focused on social justice and
excellent students from HBCU and Minority Serving Institutions
the economic and professional success of women and people
that include Norfolk State University, Morehouse College, Teradyne supports non-traditional talent development
of color. Teradyne directly supports organizations working for
Spellman College, Hampton University, and Talladega College. paths as well. For example, we are a multi-year supporter of
social justice including donations to Boston PFLAG, NAACP
Resilient Coders, a Boston based organization training people
Education Focused Programs Legal Defense and Education Fund, UNCF, local university of color for high growth careers as software engineers using
Education focused programs that expand diversity in science, chapters of the National Society of Black Engineers (NSBE), an intensive 20-week programming boot camp.
technology, engineering and math (STEM) at the middle/high the Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers (SHPE) and are
school and university levels. providing organizational support for the professional group, To help support the financial infrastructure in the Black
Black in Robotics – Boston Chapter. Community, Teradyne maintains substantial cash deposits
at OneUnited Bank, America’s largest Black-owned and
In 2023, we strengthened our partnerships with organizations
managed bank which uses deposited funds for development
that have been amplifying the voices of women in STEM for
and investment within the community it serves.
decades. Both the Society of Women in Engineering and
the Global Semiconductor Alliance’s Women Leadership
67 Executive Summary About Teradyne CSR Vision Stakeholder Engagement Foundational Framework Sustainable Environment Our Solutions Social Engagement Ethical Governance Our Reporting
SOCIAL ENGAGEMENT
Denmark Team Key Community Activities in 2023
Odense Sustainability Partnership In 2023, Universal Robots sponsored the Odin Award - the main award
at Ignite Odense, a local startup event taking place in November. The
Universal Robots is a founding member of the Odense Climate award was presented by Universal Robots to a startup company that has
Partnership. The partnership strives to drive the local climate agenda achieved extraordinary results. In 2023, Universal Robots also, together
and contribute to making Odense climate neutral by 2030. with MiR, sponsored the European Robotics Forum, which was held in
For more information, please visit: odenseklimapartnerskab.dk/ Odense in March and organized by the University of Southern Denmark.
The UR/MiR Scholarship Program
Odense Robotics StartUp Fund
for Women in Engineering
Universal Robots, together with top local investors in robotics and
Every year Universal Robots and MiR awards the UR/MiR Scholarship
big-name commercial organizations, is a part of the Odense Robotics
for female students in technical or vocational education programs. The
StartUp Fund. The goal is to help develop promising startups to become
scholarship is awarded to encourage women to pursue careers in the
the next big Danish robot venture. The fund invests money into new
robotics industry and to offer a platform for the female role models,
robotics startups and gives them the support they need to turn their
who - alongside their studies - proactively work to break assumptions
smart ideas into successful businesses.
about studying and pursuing a career in STEM. The scholarship has been
awarded since 2022, and the recipient receives 30,000 DKK as well as an
internship at either Universal Robots or MiR.
Sponsorship of Cultural Events
In our Robotics headquarters town of Odense, Universal Robots supports
Education and Robotics Sponsorships the major summer cultural festival, the H.C. Andersen Festivals as well as
related activities for local children.
We have chosen to focus much of our sponsorship activity on robotics
education activities to inspire and create opportunities for the next
generation. Our most important community education activity is our
involvement in Odinskolen in Odense, a state funded school which
specializes in robotics education.
68 Executive Summary About Teradyne CSR Vision Stakeholder Engagement Foundational Framework Sustainable Environment Our Solutions Social Engagement Ethical Governance Our Reporting
ETHICAL GOVERNANCE
Policies, Compliance & Risk Management
Operational Excellence & Corporate topics: environmental best practices, health and safety Compliance & Risk Management
Governance in the workplace and in the community, anti-corruption
and bribery, diversity, equity and inclusion, unconscious • W e require all suppliers to agree to our Supplier Code
• W e have documented and published Teradyne’s bias, avoiding conflicts of interest, information security and of Conduct and to conduct business in an ethical manner.
CSR management system to outline how CSR and protection in the workplace, and proper use of social media.
• T he Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee
Ethical Governance is a company-wide priority.
• W e provide an anonymous Whistleblower hotline available of our Board of Directors reviews and monitors our
• T eradyne is committed to complying with all Responsible to all employees, suppliers, customers and the public. As environmental, social and governance program and
Business Alliance Code of Conduct requirements. set forth in Teradyne’s Confidential Hotline Policy, Teradyne initiatives.
does NOT tolerate retaliation or penalizing of any kind
• T eradyne’s Board of Directors is committed to promoting, • W e include our ESG program in our enterprise risk
against any person making a good faith complaint or
creating and maintaining a safe and healthy workplace, management annual review to senior management
assisting the company in the investigation of any Code
environment and society. and the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors annually.
of Conduct violation. This includes any reprimand, reprisal,
harassment, change in work duties, change in employment
• O ur financial performance and results have not been
amenities, change in reporting requirements, damage to
materially impacted by any CSR related issues or regulatory
Ethical Governance Policies career prospects or reputation, threats to do any of these
fines or penalties
or deliberate omissions which may harm the individual.
• W e publish governance policies, including Teradyne’s
The identity of any whistleblower is kept confidential to • W e conduct ISO quality audits, internal audits and annual
Anti-Corruption Policy and Labor Policy.
the fullest extent possible. In addition, Teradyne’s enterprise risk assessment reviews with our Board of
European subsidiaries have whistleblower policies Directors.
• W e deploy Code of Conduct/Business Ethics Training to all
that meet the requirements of the European Union’s
new full and part time employees and contractors as part
• W e conduct anti-corruption due diligence on third parties
Whistleblower Directive.
of the on-boarding process and administer annual Code
we work with including restricted party screening.
of Conduct refresher training to all employees at the
• T he Audit Committee of our Board of Directors is
end of each year, which includes a video presentation,
responsible for business ethics issues, including overseeing
quiz and compliance certification. For 2023, the Code of
incident investigations and corrective actions.
Conduct/ Business Ethics Training covered the following
69 Executive Summary About Teradyne CSR Vision Stakeholder Engagement Foundational Framework Sustainable Environment Our Solutions Social Engagement Ethical Governance Our Reporting
Policies, Compliance & Risk Management (continued)
Human Rights Data Security & Privacy Future Plans
• O ur Human Rights Policy fully aligns with the Responsible • W e have documented security procedures that include As part of our annual Ethical Governance Reviews, we will continue to focus
Business Alliance standard, including with respect data privacy and cyber security details. on improving our management systems, implementing and updating our
to prohibition of forced or bonded labor, child labor, company policies and identifying any risks.
• We provide data protection training for employees.
discrimination and other inhumane labor practices.
• W e have implemented controls and processes for
• We protect and support employees’ rights through labor
protecting sensitive customer data.
policies that ensure living wages, limits on working hours
and freedom of association and collective bargaining. These
• W e have had no information security breaches in fiscal
policies are available on our website and are distributed to
years 2020, 2021, 2022 and 2023.
employees. We expect our suppliers to comply with our
labor policies as stated in our Supplier Code of Conduct. • W e have had no material leaks, thefts or losses of internal
Compliance is monitored through RBA audits. or customer data.
• O ur Whistleblower hotline is available to all employees, • W e implemented a data privacy compliance program
suppliers, customers and the public. During 2023 we did in response to the EU, 2018 General Data Protection
not receive any internal or external claim regarding supply Regulations (GDPR). We have expanded our program
chain human trafficking or forced labor. to include new data privacy regulations in China and
in California.
• W e have implemented controls to comply with the
U.S. Forced Labor Prevention Act. • W e have enhanced our enterprise cybersecurity protection
program in response to a third-party audit.
• W e have completed a product cybersecurity assessment
with an independent third party.
70 Executive Summary About Teradyne CSR Vision Stakeholder Engagement Foundational Framework Sustainable Environment Our Solutions Social Engagement Ethical Governance Our Reporting
Policies, Compliance & Risk Management (continued)
2023 POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS 2023 FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
Political Contributions $0 Tax Incentive/Relief/Credits (Country)
Recipient Foreign Tax Relief $15,220,472
Country Total Tax Incentive/Relief/Credits: $15,220,472
Data Publicly Available Subsidies (Country)
Publicly Available Total Subsidies:
Lobbying Activities (USA) $163,340 Investment grants, research and development grants, and other relevant types of grants (Country)
Total investment grants, research and development grants, and other relevant types of grants: $1,977,238
1. Teradyne does not use its corporate funds or assets for political contributions.
Awards (Country)
2. Teradyne does not reimburse employees or provide matching funds for any political
contributions by employees using their personal funds. Total Awards:
3. Teradyne neither encourages nor discourages employees from making political Royalty holidays (Country)
contributions of their choice.
Total Royalty Holidays:
4. Teradyne is a member of a number of trade associations who may engage in lobbying
Financial assistance from Export Credit Agencies (ECAs) (Country):
activities on the part of the association members.
Total financial assistance from Export Credit Agencies (ECAs):
Financial Incentives (Country)
Total Financial Incentives:
Other financial benefits received from any government for any operation (Country)
Total other financial benefits received from any government for any operation:
Government is present in the shareholding structure: No
71 Executive Summary About Teradyne CSR Vision Stakeholder Engagement Foundational Framework Sustainable Environment Our Solutions Social Engagement Ethical Governance Our Reporting
Our Reporting
ALIGNMENT WITH EXTERNAL REPORTING FRAMEWORKS
– Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
– Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB)
– Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)
Based on feedback received through our investor outreach activities, we are using three frameworks to inform our reporting.
These include the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB)
and the Global Reporting Initiative. Below is a mapping of how our latest disclosure aligns with these frameworks to support the
information needs of our investors.
72 Executive Summary About Teradyne CSR Vision Stakeholder Engagement Foundational Framework Sustainable Environment Our Solutions Social Engagement Ethical Governance Our Reporting
Task Force on Climate-Related Financial
Disclosures (TCFD)
The TCFD recommendations are designed to solicit
consistent, informative and actionable, forward-looking
information on the material financial impacts of climate-
related risks and opportunities, including those related
to the global transition to a lower-carbon economy.
Recommended Disclosures Response
Governance
A) Describe the board’s oversight of climate-related risks and Teradyne’s Board of Directors Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee is responsible for the oversight of the company’s corporate social responsibility
opportunities. (CSR) activities. As part of this responsibility, the Committee periodically reviews our environmental, social and governance program. More Details
B) Describe management’s role in assessing and managing risks Teradyne has a cross-functional team that develops the long-term strategy, annual goals, metrics tracking, and reporting processes for the company’s CSR
and opportunities. activities. The team also authors Teradyne’s CSR Report. This group reports to a steering team of senior leaders and regularly reviews results with the CEO
and CFO. More Details
Strategy
A) Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities the Reducing the contributors to and impact of climate change involves generation of energy from renewable sources, more efficient generation from traditional
organization has identified over the short, medium, and long sources, and the more efficient use of energy, regardless of source. In both supply and demand, semiconductor technology is fundamental to reductions in
term. greenhouse gas emissions. As a leading supplier of semiconductor test equipment, our products are used to verify the performance of high-power devices
used in power generation and transportation and low-power applications in environmental monitoring systems and battery management systems for
electronic devices. More Details
B) Describe the impact of climate-related risks and opportunities We work closely with our customers to understand their product roadmaps and then align our R&D and business development efforts to meet those
on the organization’s businesses, strategy, and financial requirements. For example, we identified a gap in our product line for testing high power semiconductors used in renewable energy production and
planning. electric powered transportation applications. As a result, in 2019 we acquired Lemsys, a Swiss company with unique technology for testing high- power
semiconductors used in these applications. Similarly, our new product development processes consistently deliver higher energy efficiency per device tested
than prior generation products. More Details
C) Describe the resilience of the organization’s strategy, taking into Teradyne is pursuing science based targets. We submitted our letter of commitment in the end of 2023 and are setting targets by the end of 2024
consideration different climate-related scenarios, including a 2°C for approval.
or lower scenario.
73 Executive Summary About Teradyne CSR Vision Stakeholder Engagement Foundational Framework Sustainable Environment Our Solutions Social Engagement Ethical Governance Our Reporting
Risk Management
A) Describe the organization’s processes for identifying and As a supplier of test equipment for electronic products and automation tools for the industry, our climate related risks are primarily market related.
assessing climate- related risks. Therefore, we monitor the end market demand trends for our products, including potential climate-related trends, at the business unit level quarterly
and at the Board of Directors level annually.
B) Describe the organization’s processes for managing At our facilities in North Reading, Costa Rica, Cebu and Agoura Hills, we utilize Environmental management systems that are ISO14001 certified.
climate-related risks. This certification program ensures we are managing environmental compliance along with requiring consistent environmental improvements.
C) Describe how processes for identifying, assessing, and Our risks are at the market level and are incorporated into the annual and mid-term planning processes of the company. Teradyne is actively working
managing climate-related risks are integrated into the to increase the resilience of our global supply chain. This includes adding redundant production sites for critical products or components and qualifying
organization’s overall risk management. additional sources of supply.
Metrics and Target
A) Disclose the metrics used by the organization to assess We disclose our emissions data annually through the CDP Climate Change Survey and summarize the data in our CSR Report. More Details
climate-related risks and opportunities in line with its strategy
and risk management process.
B) Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2, and, if appropriate, Scope 3 See SASB disclosure below.
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, and the related risks.
C) Describe the targets used by the organization to manage We believe commitments must be supported by clear plans and Teradyne is developing those plans as the global infrastructure to support 100% Renewable
climate-related risks and opportunities and performance against emissions evolves. In North America where that infrastructure exists, we completed agreements in 2022 that will enable 100% Renewable scope 2 carbon
targets. emissions from our operations there by 2025 using a Virtual Power Purchase Agreement (VPPA.) We expect to continue on the path to 100% Renewable
emissions and will provide progress updates via our CSR management tool as firm plans are put in place. We have now committed to the Science Based
Targets Initiative (SBTi) Net-Zero Standard and are in the process of Developing our targets. Through SBTi, we will be setting targets for near-term and
long-term goals to ultimately achieve Net-Zero emissions, validated through SBTi.
74 Executive Summary About Teradyne CSR Vision Stakeholder Engagement Foundational Framework Sustainable Environment Our Solutions Social Engagement Ethical Governance Our Reporting
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB)
SASB Standards provide details about Teradyne’s sustainability activities.
These standards were developed to identify sustainability issues that can influence the long-term value of the company.
Topic Accounting Metric Category Unit of Measure Code Additional Info Resource Link
Greenhouse Gas (1) Gross global Scope 1 emissions and (2) amount of Quantitative Tonne (t) CO -e TC-SC-110a.1 Scope 1:3,155 tonnes CO2 equivalent Reference Link
Emissions total emissions from perfluorinated compounds Scope 2:29,910 tonnes CO2 equivalent
Scope 3 (Partial): 200,482 (excludes use of sold products)
Purchased goods and services: 156,777
Travel: 17,695.28
Waste: 74
Gases: C02: 2739.06 tCO2e
CH4: 6.74 tCO2e
N20: 2.12 tCO2e
HFCs: 407.36 tCO2e
CO2 equivalent
Greenhouse Gas Discussion of long-term and short-term strategy Discussion n/a TC-SC-110a.2 Teradyne’s Carbon Disclosure Project Goals Reference Link
Emissions or plan to manage Scope 1 emissions, emissions and Analysis
reduction targets,and an analysis of performance
against those targets.
Energy Management in (1) Total energy consumed, (2) percentage grid Quantitative Gigajoules (GJ), TC-SC-140a.1 (1) 75,708 MWh (2) 98.6 % (3) 1.4% Reference Link
Manufacturing electricity, (3) percentage renewable Percentage (%)
Water Management (1) Total water withdrawn, Quantitative Thousand cubic TC-SC-320a.1 Teradyne only tracks total water consumed,
(2) total water consumed, meters (m³), which in 2022 was 124,322 m^3.
(3) percentage of each in regions with High or Percentage (%)
Extremely High Baseline Water Stress
Waste Management Amount of hazardous waste from manufacturing, Quantitative Tonne (t), TC-SC-320a.1 Omitted: Teradyne does not disclose this information.
percentage recycled Percentage (%)
Employee Health & Safety Description of efforts to assess, monitor, and reduce Discussion n/a TC-SC-320a.2 Teradyne's Employee Health and Safety Policy Reference Link
exposure of employees to human health hazards and Analysis
Employee Health & Safety Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal Quantitative Reporting TC-SC-330a.1 None
proceedings associated with employee health and currency
safety violations
75 Executive Summary About Teradyne CSR Vision Stakeholder Engagement Foundational Framework Sustainable Environment Our Solutions Social Engagement Ethical Governance Our Reporting
Recruiting & Managing Percentage of employees that are (1) foreign nationals Quantitative Percentage (%) TC-SC-410a.1 Omitted: Teradyne does not disclose this information.
a Global & Skilled and (2) located offshore
Workforce
Product Lifecycle Percentage of products by revenue that contain IEC Quantitative Percentage (%) TC-SC-410a.2 Omitted: Teradyne does not disclose this information.
Management 62474 declarable substances
Product Lifecycle Processor energy efficiency at a system-level for: Quantitative Various, TC-SC-440a.1 Omitted: Teradyne does not track this information
Management (1) servers, (2) desktops, and (3) laptops by product
category
Materials Sourcing Description of the management of risks associated Discussion n/a TC-SC-520a.1 Annual Conflict Minerals Report Reference Link
with the use of critical materials and Analysis
Intellectual Property Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal Quantitative Reporting TC-SC-520a.1 None
Protection & Competitive proceedings associated with anticompetitive behavior currency
Behavior regulations
Total production Quantitative n/a TC-SC-000.A Omitted: Teradyne does not disclose this information
Percentage of production Quantitative Percentage (%) TC-SC-000.B Omitted: Teradyne does not disclose this information
from owned facilities
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)
The Global Reporting Initiative standards provide details about Teradyne’s business operations including potential activities underway
or planned on issues such as climate change, human rights and corruption.
GRI Standard Disclosure Report Page # Additional Information Resource Link
102-1 Name of the organization 1 Teradyne, Inc.
102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 5 About Teradyne
102-3 Location of headquarters 7 600 Riverpark Drive North Reading, MA 01864 FY 2023 10-K
102-4 Location of operations Teradyne operates in numerous countries across the globe and has significant
operations centers in the United States, Japan, Denmark, the Philippines, China,
Costa Rica, Taiwan, Korea, and Singapore.
102-5 Ownership and legal form Information available in Teradyne’s Proxy 2023 Proxy
76 Executive Summary About Teradyne CSR Vision Stakeholder Engagement Foundational Framework Sustainable Environment Our Solutions Social Engagement Ethical Governance Our Reporting
GRI Standard Disclosure Report Page # Additional Information Resource Link
102-6 Markets served 15 Information available in Teradyne’s 10-K FY 2023 10-K
102-7 Scale of the organization 15 Information available in Teradyne’s 10-K FY 2023 10-K
102-8 Information on employees and other workers Information available in Human Capital Management Sections of Teradyne’s 10-K FY 2023 10-K
and Proxy. 2023 Proxy
102-9 Supply chain Teradyne’s supply chain organizations are designed to add value in ways that are:
- Legal, accountable, and auditable
- Ethically, environmentally, and socially responsible
- Economically effective
102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply -In April 2018 Teradyne acquired Mobile Industrial Robots A/S, a Denmark based
chain supplier of collaborative autonomous mobile robots for industrial applications.
-In March 2018 Teradyne acquired Energid, a Cambridge, MA based engineering
firm and developer of robot control, simulation, and machine vision software.
-In January 2019 Teradyne acquired Lemysys SA, a leading global provider of test
equipment and associated services for power semiconductor discrete devices and
modules.
- In October 2019, Teradyne acquired AutoGuide Mobile Robots, a supplier of
high-payload autonomous mobile robots.
102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Teradyne applies the concepts of the precautionary approach by considering the
long-term trajectory of climate change and its potential impacts on Teradyne.
Elements of that ongoing evaluation are reflected in Teradyne’s CSR web content.
102-12 External initiatives Sustainability Roundtable, Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), California Supply Chain
Transparency Act of 2010, Customs- Trade Partnership Against Terrorism - USA,
EU Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) Directive 2005, Global
Reporting Initiative—GRI 4.0 sustainability reporting guidelines,
U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar anticorruption laws enacted
under the OECD Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in
International Business Transactions., US Equal Opportunity laws and accompanying
regulations.
102-13 Membership of associations SEMI.org
Sustainability Roundtable
Security Executive Committee
Responsible Business Alliance
Robot Industry Association
Board of Corporation Affiliates at the national level of NSBE
77 Executive Summary About Teradyne CSR Vision Stakeholder Engagement Foundational Framework Sustainable Environment Our Solutions Social Engagement Ethical Governance Our Reporting
GRI Standard Disclosure Report Page # Additional Information Resource Link
102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 2 A Message from our CEO
102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 8 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities outlined in our Focus Areas and Priorities.
Additionally, Environmental Risks and Opportunities outlined in our CDP and ISO
14001.
102-18 Governance structure Information available in Teradyne’s Proxy 2023 Proxy
102-19 Delegating authority 15 Included in Teradyne’s CSR Management Approach Document CSR Management
Approach
102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, 15 Included in Teradyne’s CSR Management Approach Document CSR Management
environmental, and social topics Approach
102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, 15 Included in Teradyne’s CSR Management Approach Document CSR Management
and social topics Approach
102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its Proxy Statement Pg 3. 2023 Proxy
committees
102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Paul Tufano, Chairman of the Board. Mr. Tufano is not an executive officer in the Governance Web Page
organization.
102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body Information available in Teradyne’s Proxy 2023 Proxy
102-25 Conflicts of interest Information available in Teradyne’s Proxy 2023 Proxy
102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, 15 Included in Teradyne’s CSR Management Approach Document CSR Management
values, and strategy Approach
102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body 15 Included in Teradyne’s CSR Management Approach Document CSR Management
Approach
102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s 15 Included in Teradyne’s CSR Management Approach Document CSR Management
performance Approach
102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, 15 Included in Teradyne’s CSR Management Approach Document CSR Management
and social impacts Approach
102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes 15 Included in Teradyne’s CSR Management Approach Document CSR Management
Approach
102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics 15 Included in Teradyne’s CSR Management Approach Document CSR Management
Approach
102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability 15 Included in Teradyne’s CSR Management Approach Document CSR Management
reporting Approach
78 Executive Summary About Teradyne CSR Vision Stakeholder Engagement Foundational Framework Sustainable Environment Our Solutions Social Engagement Ethical Governance Our Reporting
GRI Standard Disclosure Report Page # Additional Information Resource Link
102-33 Communicating critical concerns The process for reporting critical concerns is outlined in our Code of Conduct. Teradyne’s Code
We provide a confidential phone hotline and confidential web reporting. of Conduct
102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns
102-35 Remuneration policies Information available in Teradyne’s Proxy 2023 Proxy
102-36 Process for determining remuneration Information available in Teradyne’s Proxy 2023 Proxy
102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration Information available in Teradyne’s Proxy 2023 Proxy
102-38 Annual total compensation ratio Information available in Teradyne’s Proxy 2023 Proxy
102-39 Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio Information available in Teradyne’s Proxy 2023 Proxy
102-40 List of stakeholder groups 10 Employees, customers, suppliers, governments, non-government and non-profit
organizations, communities, and investors.
102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 33 Teradyne respects the rights of workers to associate freely and seek to Labor Policy
communicate openly with each other and management without fear of reprisal,
intimidation or harassment, as reflected in our Labor Policy.
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 10 Teradyne identifies external stakeholders based on the relevance of their industry CSR Management
and perspectives to Teradyne’s business, history of partnering and engagement Approach
with the company, and their expertise in relevant fields. Teradyne’s key stakeholders
include customers, employees and investors.
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 10
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Information available in Teradyne’s Proxy 2023 Proxy
102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial Information available in Teradyne’s 10-K FY 2023 10-K
statements
102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 13 CSR Management
Approach
102-47 List of material topics 13-15
102-48 Restatements of information Updated annual data, as applicable.
102-49 Changes in reporting Updated annual data, as applicable.
102-50 Reporting period 2023
102-51 Date of most recent report Updated annual data, as applicable.
102-52 Reporting cycle Annual
79 Executive Summary About Teradyne CSR Vision Stakeholder Engagement Foundational Framework Sustainable Environment Our Solutions Social Engagement Ethical Governance Our Reporting
GRI Standard Disclosure Report Page # Additional Information Resource Link
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Andres.willkie@teradyne.com
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI We self-declare that the report is prepared in accordance with GRI Standards:
Standards Comprehensive option.
102-55 GRI content index 23-24 GRI content index included in our Corporate Social Responsibility Report.
102-56 External assurance While we have not sought external assurance for the content of this report/
GRI index, certain data included is subject to external review and all information
provided is reviewed internally.
GRI 103: Management Approach
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 15 Included in Teradyne’s CSR Management Approach Document. Teradyne’s CSR CSR Management
Management Approach Document outlines the management approach for all topics Approach
covered under the GRI.
103-2 The management approach and its components 15 Included in Teradyne’s CSR Management Approach Document. Teradyne’s CSR CSR Management
Management Approach Document outlines the management approach for all topics Approach
covered under the GRI.
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 15 Included in Teradyne’s CSR Management Approach Document. Teradyne’s CSR CSR Management
Management Approach Document outlines the management approach for all topics Approach
covered under the GRI.
GRI 201: Economic Performance
201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Revenues: $3,155,045.00 FY 2023 10-K
Economic value distributed: $2,439,544.00
Economic value retained: $715,501.00
Teradyne Form 10-K
201-2 Financial implications and other risks and N/A. Teradyne does not believe climate change represents either a substantial
opportunities due to climate change opportunity or risk to our overall business.
201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement Teradyne offers defined benefits and/or defined contribution plans which vary FY 2023 10-K
plans by country.
201-4 Financial assistance received from government Teradyne discloses all Financial Assistance received from governments globally CSR Webpage
GRI 202: Market Presence
202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender Omitted: Teradyne does not disclose this information.
compared to local minimum wage
80 Executive Summary About Teradyne CSR Vision Stakeholder Engagement Foundational Framework Sustainable Environment Our Solutions Social Engagement Ethical Governance Our Reporting
GRI Standard Disclosure Report Page # Additional Information Resource Link
202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local Omitted: Teradyne does not disclose this information.
community
GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts
203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported n/a
203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Teradyne does not measure indirect economic impacts as noted nor does Teradyne
track indirect economic impacts in context of external benchmarks.
GRI 204: Procurement Practices
204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Omitted: Teradyne does not track this information.
GRI 205: Anti-Corruption
205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 46 All operations are assessed for risks related to corruption. Our North Reading, Cebu,
and Costa Rica facilities are assessed formally through the RBA self-assessment
questionnaire. No significant risks have been identified.
205-2 Communication and training about anti- corruption 46 All Teradyne employees receive Code of Conduct training annually. Additionally, Anti Corruption Policy
policies and procedures Teradyne provides our anti-corruption policy on our CSR webpage.
205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Teradyne has no confirmed incidents of corruption.
GRI 206: Anti-Competitive Behavior
206-1 Legal actions for anti- competitive behavior, anti-trust, Teradyne has no legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, or monopoly
and monopoly practices practices.
301-1 Materials used by weight or volume Omitted: Teradyne does not track this information.
301-2 Recycled input materials used Omitted: Teradyne does not track this information.
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 75,708 megawatt hours Teradyne total
302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization Omitted: Teradyne does not track this information. Teradyne’s CDP Submittal
302-3 Energy intensity 12 tCO2e gross global scope 1&2 tonnes per thousand USD revenue Teradyne’s CDP Submittal
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption There was no reduction in our energy consumption in 2023. Teradyne’s CDP Submittal
302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products Omitted: Teradyne does not track this information. Teradyne’s CDP Submittal
and services
81 Executive Summary About Teradyne CSR Vision Stakeholder Engagement Foundational Framework Sustainable Environment Our Solutions Social Engagement Ethical Governance Our Reporting
GRI Standard Disclosure Report Page # Additional Information Resource Link
GRI 303: Water and Effluents
303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource Omitted: Teradyne does not track this information.
303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts Omitted: Teradyne does not track this information.
303-3 Water withdrawal Omitted: Teradyne does not track this information.
303-4 Water discharge Omitted: Teradyne does not track this information.
303-5 Water consumption 124,322 cubic meters water consumed
GRI 304: Biodiversity
304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or None to our knowledge.
adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high
biodiversity value outside protected areas
304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, and services Teradyne’s locations are not in protected areas or areas of high biodiversity.
on biodiversity Nevertheless, we operate in a manner that is committed to continuous
improvement in environmental sustainability.
304-3 Habitats protected or restored None
304-4 IUCN Red List species and national conservation list None to our knowledge.
species with habitats in areas affected by operations
GRI 305: Emissions
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 24 3,155 tonnes CO equivalent Teradyne’s CDP Submittal
2
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 24 29,910 tonnes CO equivalent Teradyne’s CDP Submittal
2
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 24 200,460 tonnes CO equivalent Teradyne’s CDP Submittal
2
305-4 GHG emissions intensity 24 12 tonnes CO equivalent per USD revenue Teradyne’s CDP Submittal
2
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 24 Slight decrease from 2022 (See page 12) Teradyne’s CDP Submittal
305-6 Emissions of ozone- depleting substances (ODS) 24 0 Teradyne’s CDP Submittal
305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other 24 CH4: 6.74 tCO2e Teradyne’s CDP Submittal
significant air emissions N2O: 2.12 tCO2e
HFCs: 407.36 tCO2e
CO2: 2739.06 tCO2e
GRI 306: Effluents and Waste
306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination Omitted: Teradyne does not disclose this information.
82 Executive Summary About Teradyne CSR Vision Stakeholder Engagement Foundational Framework Sustainable Environment Our Solutions Social Engagement Ethical Governance Our Reporting
GRI Standard Disclosure Report Page # Additional Information Resource Link
306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Omitted: Teradyne does not disclose this information.
306-3 Significant spills None
306-4 Transport of hazardous waste Teradyne uses licensed transporters only.
GRI 306: Effluents and Waste
307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and Teradyne has received no fines or non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with
regulations environmental laws and/or regulations.
GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment
308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental 41 Teradyne expects our suppliers to adhere to our Supplier Code of Conduct which Supplier Code of Conduct
criteria outlines environmental standards they must meet.
308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain Teradyne does not perform negative environmental impact assessments of its
and actions taken supply chain.
GRI 401: Employment
401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Omitted: Teradyne does not disclose new hire information. Employee turnover
information is disclosed in the CSR Report.
401-2 Benefits provided to full- time employees that are not Omitted: Teradyne does not disclose this information externally.
provided to temporary or part-time employees
401-3 Parental leave Omitted: Teradyne does not disclose this information.
GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations
402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational We provide a minimum number of weeks’ notice to employees prior to
changes implementing significant operational changes that could substantially affect them
in accordance with local operations. We also have quarterly business updates with
all employees.
GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety
403-1 Occupational health and safety management system 23 Teradyne has a documented health and safety management system that is Employee Health
integrated with our environmental management system. and Safety Policy
403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident 32 Teradyne conducts hazards assessments and risk assessments. Incidents, injuries Employee Health
investigation and illness are reported, tracked and investigated. and Safety Policy
403-3 Occupational health services 33 Available at specific sites where applicable. Employee Health
and Safety Policy
403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication 33 Yes, safety meetings with worker participation, education and training are Employee Health
on occupational health and safety performed regularly. and Safety Policy
83 Executive Summary About Teradyne CSR Vision Stakeholder Engagement Foundational Framework Sustainable Environment Our Solutions Social Engagement Ethical Governance Our Reporting
GRI Standard Disclosure Report Page # Additional Information Resource Link
403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety 33 Yes, annually Employee Health
and Safety Policy
403-6 Promotion of worker health Yes, amenities are available related to worker health. In addition to all necessary
work-place protective equipment, most of Teradyne’s larger facilities include fitness
centers for employee use. The company also reimburses employees up to $150/year
for fitness center memberships.
403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and Omitted: Teradyne does not track this information.
safety impacts directly linked by business relationships
403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and safety Documented health and safety system. Employee Health
management system and Safety Policy
403-9 Work-related injuries Tracked and reported in accordance with local laws and regulations, below industry
average.
403-10 Work-related ill health Tracked with injury, illness.
GRI 404: Training and Education
404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Omitted: Teradyne does not track this information.
404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition 53 See Teradyne’s Corporate Social Responsibility webpage for additional information. CSR Webpage
assistance programs
404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular 53 100%
performance and career development reviews
GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Information regarding the diversity of Teradyne’s Board of Directors is available in 2023 Proxy
Teradyne’s Proxy.
405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women Omitted: Teradyne does not disclose this information.
to men
GRI 406: Non-Discrimination
406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken Omitted: Teradyne does not disclose this information.
GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining
407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom 42 We have not identified any Teradyne operations with significant risk to freedom Supplier Code of Conduct
of association and collective bargaining may be at risk of association and we require all suppliers to comply with our Supplier Code of Labor Policy
Conduct, which addresses freedom of association. We also allow employees to have
the freedom to associate.
84 Executive Summary About Teradyne CSR Vision Stakeholder Engagement Foundational Framework Sustainable Environment Our Solutions Social Engagement Ethical Governance Our Reporting
GRI Standard Disclosure Report Page # Additional Information Resource Link
GRI 408: Child Labor
408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for 69 Our labor policy prohibits the use of child labor and prohibits workers under the Labor Policy
incidents of child labor age of 18 from performing hazardous work. There are no identified risks of child
labor abuse at any of our operations. Teradyne’s Supplier Code of Conduct, which
all suppliers are required to adhere to, contains similar restrictions on child labor.
GRI 409: Forced Labor
409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for 69 Our labor policy prohibits the use of forced or compulsory labor or any kind. There Labor Policy
incidents of forced or compulsory labor are no identified risks of forced or compulsory labor at any of our operations.
Teradyne’s Supplier Code of Conduct, which all suppliers are required to adhere to,
contains similar restrictions on forced or compulsory labor.
GRI 410: Security Practices
410-1 Security personnel trained in human rights policies or 100% of security personnel have received formal training on the organization’s Teradyne’s Code
procedures human rights policies and procedures through our annual Employee Code of of Conduct
Conduct Training. This applies to third-party organizations providing security
personnel.
GRI 411: Rights of Indigenous Peoples
411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous There have been no identified incidents of violations involving the rights of
peoples indigenous peoples during the reporting period.
GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment
412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights Teradyne’s Code of Conduct covers human rights and Teradyne has a Statement on Human Trafficking Policy
reviews or impact assessments Human Trafficking that applies to all operations. Additionally, our large operations
in high-risk areas are subject to the RBA self-assessment annually, which covers
human rights.
412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or All Teradyne employees undergo Code of Conduct training annually. This training Teradyne’s Code
procedures. includes human rights. of Conduct
412-3 Significant investment agreements and contracts Contracts with suppliers require them to agree to our Supplier Code of Conduct. Supplier Code of Conduct
that include human rights clauses or that underwent Teradyne’s Supplier Code of Conduct is modeled off the RBA Code of Conduct and
human rights screening covers human rights.
GRI 413: Local Communities
413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact 56 Information is also available in Teradyne’s 10-K and Proxy. FY 2023 10-K
assessments, and development programs 2023 Proxy
85 Executive Summary About Teradyne CSR Vision Stakeholder Engagement Foundational Framework Sustainable Environment Our Solutions Social Engagement Ethical Governance Our Reporting
GRI Standard Disclosure Report Page # Additional Information Resource Link
413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential Teradyne has not identified any operations with significant actual or potential
negative impacts on local communities negative impacts on local communities.
GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment
414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 42 Teradyne expects our suppliers to adhere to our Supplier Code of Conduct which Supplier Code of Conduct
outlines environmental standards they must meet.
414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and Teradyne does not perform negative social impact assessments of its supply chain.
ctions taken
GRI 415: Political Contributions
415-1 Political contributions Teradyne had no political contributions for the reporting period. CSR Webpage
GRI 416: Customer Healthy and Safety
416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of 23 Teradyne’s product safety group is responsible for ensuring the safety of our CSR Webpage
product and service categories products. In addition, third-party certifiers are utilized to assess our products.
416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health From time to time, Teradyne has incidents regarding the safety of certain of its
and safety impacts of products and services products. Teradyne has taken actions and will continue to take actions to mitigate
any risks associated with the safety of its products.
GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling
417-1 Requirements for product and service information and Covered by product safety and third-party certification.
labeling
417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and From time to time, Teradyne has issues concerning non- compliance with product
service information and labeling labeling regulations. Teradyne has taken actions and will continue to take actions to
mitigate any issues associated with product labeling regulations.
417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing Teradyne is not aware of any non-compliance concerning the marketing
communications communications of any of our products or services.
GRI 418: Customer Privacy
418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of Teradyne has not identified any substantial complaints received concerning FY 2023 10-K
customer privacy and losses of customer data breaches of customer privacy. Information regarding material cybersecurity
incidents is available in Teradyne’s 10-K.
GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance
419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the Teradyne agreed to a settlement with the US EEOC in January 2021 to resolve a
social and economic area disputed finding regarding the recruiting practices related to interns and co-op
employees.
86 Executive Summary About Teradyne CSR Vision Stakeholder Engagement Foundational Framework Sustainable Environment Our Solutions Social Engagement Ethical Governance Our Reporting
Advancing Society, People and the
Planet through Technical Innovation
CONTACT US LEARN MORE
Teradyne, Inc. For more information on Teradyne’s CSR practices and programs,
600 Riverpark Drive visit teradyne.com/corporate-social-responsibility.
North Reading, MA 01864
teradyne.com
Please send any questions or
comments about this report to:
esg@teradyne.com
UPDATED 111124
Teradyne and the Teradyne logo are trademarks of Teradyne, Inc. All other brand and product names are trademarks or registered trademarks of their
respective owners. Information contained in this document is summary in nature and subject to change without notice. © Teradyne 2024. All rights reserved.
