ESG Report
The world requires reliable and affordable transportation fuels.
We are committed to advancing the future of energy through
innovation, ingenuity and unmatched execution.
Valero.com August 2024
ESG Report 3 A Message from Our CEO
4 About Valero
Please visit www.valero.com to learn more about our company. The 6 Highlights
terms “Valero,” “we,” “our” and “us,” when used herein, may refer
8 Valero's Strategy
to Valero Energy Corporation (NYSE: VLO), to one or more of our
consolidated subsidiaries and/or consolidated joint ventures, or to all
of them taken as a whole. The term "DGD," when used in this report,
10 Low-Carbon Innovation
may refer to Diamond Green Diesel Holdings LLC, its wholly owned
consolidated subsidiary, or both of them taken as a whole. 16 Efficient Climate Solutions
ABOUT THIS DOCUMENT 18 GHG Emissions
Policies and Procedures
This document includes statements regarding various policies, values, standards, approaches,
methodologies, procedures, processes, systems, programs, initiatives, assessments, technologies, practices,
and similar measures related to our operations, ESG-related data, actions and compliance systems 22 Environment
(collectively, “Policies and Procedures”). References to Policies and Procedures in this document do not
represent guarantees or promises about their efficacy or continued implementation or use, or any assurance
that any such Policies and Procedures will apply in every case. Such Policies and Procedures are subject
to risks, uncertainties and other factors, some of which are beyond the control of Valero and are difficult
to predict, and there may be exigent circumstances, factors, or considerations that may cause different 32 Safety
implementation thereof or exceptions in specific instances. Please see Forward-Looking Statements below
and the risk factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023.
Forward-Looking Statements
This document contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities 42 Community
Act of 1933 (the "Securities Act") and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"),
including, but not limited to, statements about our Policies and Procedures. You can identify forward-looking
statements by words such as “should,” “strive,” “pursue,” “intend,” “anticipate,” “forecast,” “track,” “would,”
“continue,” “poised,” “focused,” “opportunity,” “scheduled,” “believe,” “estimate,” “expect,” “seek,” “could,” 52 People
“may,” “potential,” “committed,” “advancing,” “developing,” “evaluating,” “targeting,” "goal," "aspiration,"
"plan," or other similar expressions that convey the uncertainty of future events or outcomes. Forward-
looking statements in this document include those relating to our 2025 and 2035 GHG emissions reduction/
displacement targets, our 2038 update, our 2050 ambition, our support of the development of an onboard
CO2 capture system, statements relating to Valero’s low-carbon fuels strategy expected timing of completion, 64 Governance
cost and performance of projects, future market and industry conditions, future operating and financial
performance, expected timing or issuance of future reports and other disclosures, future production and
manufacturing ability and size, and management of future risks, among other matters. It is important to
note that actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements
76 SASB Report
based on numerous risk factors, including those outside of Valero’s control, such as legislative or political
changes or developments, market dynamics, cyberattacks, weather events, and other matters affecting
Valero’s operations or the demand for Valero’s products. These factors also include, but are not limited to, the 78 Notes
uncertainties that remain with respect to current or contemplated legal, political or regulatory developments
that are adverse to or restrict refining and marketing operations, or that impose profits, windfall or margin 80 Non-GAAP Disclosures
taxes or caps or penalties, global geopolitical and other conflicts and tensions, the impact of inflation on
margins and costs, economic activity levels, and the adverse effects the foregoing may have on Valero’s
business plan, strategy, operations and financial performance. These statements are often based upon
various assumptions, many of which are based, in turn, upon further assumptions, including examination
of historical operating trends and market conditions made by the management of Valero. Although Valero
believes that the assumptions were reasonable when made, because assumptions are inherently subject to ON THE COVER: Valero
significant uncertainties and contingencies, which are difficult or impossible to predict and are beyond its
control, Valero cannot give assurance that it will achieve or accomplish its expectations, beliefs or intentions, partners with organizations
or that any forward-looking statements will ultimately prove to be accurate. When considering these forward- to enhance habitats surrounding
looking statements, you should keep in mind the risk factors and other cautionary statements contained in
Valero’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including Valero’s annual report on Form its facilities. The cover shows the
10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and other reports available on Valero’s website at www.valero.com. Meraux Terracing Project where the
These risks could cause the actual results, actions and Policies and Procedures of Valero to differ materially
from those contained in any forward-looking statement. Such statements speak only as of the date of this focus is to conserve, restore and
report and we do not intend to update these statements unless we are required by the securities laws to do manage wetlands near
so. Results or metrics in this document as of any date, or for any period, ending on or prior to the date of this
document are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected as of any date, or for any period, the Valero Meraux Refinery
ending after the date of this document. Neither the future distribution of this document or the information
in Louisiana.
included or referenced herein, nor the continued availability thereof in archive form on our website, should be
deemed to constitute an update or reaffirmation of these figures or statements as of any future date.
This report and the disclosures herein are not “soliciting material,” are not deemed filed with the SEC, and
are not to be incorporated by reference into any of Valero’s filings under the Securities Act or the Exchange
Act, whether made before or after the date of this document and irrespective of any general incorporation
language therein. Furthermore, references to our website URLs are intended to be inactive textual references
only.
This document represents a good faith effort by Valero to address its efforts, initiatives, and performance on
an array of diverse and broadly defined ESG-related topics of interest to certain stakeholders. The inclusion
of or reference to any information in this document is not an indication that this information or statements
related thereto are necessarily material to investors or require disclosure in our filings with the SEC.
The information provided in this report is intended for interested readers in the United States. Because science is
evolving, references and analyses relied upon are merely provided as an aid to readers.
22
A Message from Our CEO
2023 was another strong year for Valero, with our company achieving its
best year ever for both refining environmental scorecard incidents and
refining mechanical availability. These accomplishments are a testament
to our long-standing commitment to safe, reliable and environmentally
responsible operations. This will always be our top priority.
Last year, the company also set many records, including annual sales
volumes for our wholesale system and for our renewable diesel segment,
as well as throughput volumes for our ethanol business. Valero delivered
strong financial performance in 2023, earning $24.92 per share, the
second highest in our company history.
As I think about our community, I am proud of Valero’s culture and legacy
of giving back, as demonstrated through the successful fundraising
activities we conducted during the year such as the Valero Texas Open
and Benefit for Children, as well as the incredible generosity of our
employees through volunteerism and employee giving.
Team Valero is committed to executing strategic projects that enhance the earnings capability of our
business and expand our long-term competitive advantage. Our premier refining portfolio and low-carbon
fuels businesses have made us the best-in-class producer of liquid transportation fuels and products that
are essential to modern life.
On the refining side, we are the lowest-cost producer while achieving reliable top-quartile operations.
For many years, we have prioritized capital expenditures to sustain our operations to ensure safety and
reliability. We are pursuing projects focused on increasing operational efficiencies and feedstock flexibility,
optimizing the value of our product mix and maximizing the utilization of existing conversion capacity.
On a consolidated basis, we have invested more than $5.4 billion in a profitable low-carbon portfolio. Our
renewable diesel segment continues to target high-return projects in growing low-carbon markets and
we are also diversifying as demonstrated by the development of Sustainable Aviation Fuel or SAF. The
SAF project at our renewable diesel plant in Port Arthur, Texas, is progressing ahead of schedule and is
expected to be operational in the fourth quarter of 2024. With the completion of this project, the renewable
diesel segment is expected to be one of the largest manufacturers of SAF in the world.
We also continue to evaluate and develop economic projects to further reduce the carbon intensity
of our ethanol business. With that in mind, we expect to participate as a shipper on a large-scale
proposed carbon capture pipeline connecting to eight of our ethanol plants. Once implemented, we
estimate a substantial reduction of carbon as well as an uplift in the economics of this segment.
Looking ahead, we remain focused on the things that have been a hallmark of our strategy –
maintaining operating excellence, executing our projects well, discipline around capital investments
and our commitment to stockholder returns.
As global energy supply increases to meet the demand created by a growing world population, we
remain committed to advancing transportation fuels solutions through innovation, ingenuity and
unmatched execution.
My deepest gratitude to our 9,900-plus employees for their commitment, our Board for its
unwavering support, our stockholders for their investment, and our business partners and other
stakeholders for their trust.
R. Lane Riggs
Chief Executive Officer & President
Environmental, Social and Governance Report • 3
About Valero
Our Business
We are a Fortune 500 company and a multinational manufacturer and marketer of petroleum-based and low-
carbon liquid transportation fuels and petrochemical products, and we sell our products primarily in the United
States (U.S.), Canada, the United Kingdom (U.K.), Ireland and Latin America. We manage our operations through our
Refining, Renewable Diesel and Ethanol segments.
REFINING RENEWABLE DIESEL ETHANOL
World’s largest independent World’s 2nd largest renewable World’s 2nd largest corn
refiner diesel producer ethanol producer
• 15 petroleum refineries in the • Renewable diesel plants • 12 ethanol plants with annual
U.S., Canada and the U.K., adjacent to the Valero production capacity of 1.6
with 3.2 million barrels per St. Charles and Port Arthur billion gallons of ethanol and
day (bpd) of high-complexity refineries. 4.2 million tons of dry distillers
throughput capacity. grains.
• Developing large-scale SAF
• Lowest-cost producer of project, expected by Q4 2024. • High-octane, low-carbon fuel
gasoline, diesel, jet fuel and offering at least 30% reduction
• Current annual production
other specialty products, in life cycle GHG emissions,
capacity of 1.2 billion gallons of
including petrochemicals and compared with petroleum
renewable diesel and 50 million
asphalt. gasoline.2
gallons of renewable naphtha.
• Executing a viable path to • Developing carbon capture
• Up to 80% reduction in life cycle
reduce and displace the and storage projects to further
GHG emissions, compared with
equivalent to 100% of the traditional diesel.2 reduce carbon intensity of
tonnage from our refinery GHG ethanol.
• 100% compatible with existing
emissions (Scopes 1 and 2) by
engines and infrastructure.
2035 through Board-approved
projects.1
Guiding Principles
Safety Environment Community Employees Governance
Safety is our We are committed We will be a good We consider our We view our
foundation for stewards of the neighbor by sharing employees a stakeholders as partners
success. environment. our success with the competitive advantage to whom we seek to
communities where and our greatest deliver operational
we live and work asset. We foster a excellence, disciplined
through volunteerism, supportive culture management of capital
charitable giving and and provide a safe, and long-term value on
the economic support healthy and rewarding a foundation of strong
of being a good work environment governance and ethical
employer. with opportunities for standards.
growth.
44
About Valero
JEAN GAULIN
WELCOME
(QUEBEC)
ALBERT CITY
FORT DODGE
AURORA CHARLES CITY
CANADA
MONTREAL
LAKOTA
HARTLEY
BLUFFTON
ALBION
UNITED
STATES
BLOOMINGBURG
LINDEN
BENICIA
MOUNT
VERNON
MEMPHIS
WILMINGTON
MCKEE SAN ANTONIO
UNITED
ARDMORE ST. CHARLES
KINGDOM
MERAUX
THREE
RIVERS PORT ARTHUR
IRELAND
BILL GREEHEY HOUSTON
(CORPUS CHRISTI TEXAS CITY
EAST AND WEST)
PEMBROKE LONDON
WHOLESALE MARKETING PRESENCE
MEXICO
MEXICO CITY
BRANDED WHOLESALE PRESENCE
Valero's
VALERO REFINERIES
Vision
VALERO ETHANOL PLANTS
VALERO TERMINALS
The world requires PERU LIMA
reliable and affordable VALERO OFFICES
energy, and we see DIAMOND GREEN DIESEL
(RENEWABLE DIESEL PLANTS)
this as an opportunity.
WHOLESALE MARKETING PRESENCE U.S. RENEWABLE DIESEL WHOLESALE PRESENCE
We are advancing the
BRANDED WHOLESALE PRESENCE PIPELINES
future of energy through
VALERO REFINERIES PAYMENT SERVICE CENTER
innovation, ingenuity
and unmatched VALERO ETHANOL PLANTS SUNRAY WIND
execution. VALERO TERMINALS COGENERATION UNITS
VALERO OFFICES EXPANDERS
(ELECTRICITY PRODUCED FROM EXHAUST GASES)
DIAMOND GREEN DIESEL
(RENEWABLE DIESEL PLANTS)
U.S. RENEWABLE DIESEL WHOLESALE PRESENCE
PIPELINES
Environmental, Social and Governance Report • 5
PAYMENT SERVICE CENTER
SUNRAY WIND
COGENERATION UNITS
EXPANDERS
(ELECTRICITY PRODUCED FROM EXHAUST GASES)
Highlights
Environment
GHG Emissions
• Exceeded 2025 short-term GHG emissions target.
• Remained on track to achieve 2035 medium-term GHG emissions target.
• Disclosed 2038 company-wide GHG emissions update.
• Disclosed 2050 long-term ambition.
• Received independent third-party limited assurance on/of:
o Company-wide 2023 Scopes 1 and 2 GHG emissions, including refining, renewable diesel and
ethanol.
o Company-wide 2023 life cycle GHG emissions displacements from our renewable diesel and
ethanol production, as well as the blending of and credits from low-carbon fuels.
o Company-wide 2023 GHG emissions from the use of our products on an intensity basis (Use of
Product GHG Emissions Intensity).
o The validation of our 2035 GHG emissions reduction/displacement target.
Low-Carbon Investments
• Invested $5.4 billion as of December 31, 2023, in low-carbon fuels businesses.
• Low-carbon projects held to the same after-tax internal rate of return (IRR) hurdle, just like other
refinery growth projects.
• Largest low-carbon liquid fuels producer with existing production capacity of renewable diesel,
renewable arctic diesel, renewable naphtha, renewable propane, ethanol and cellulosic ethanol.
• Expected to be completed in the fourth quarter of 2024, our SAF project at our Texas renewable fuel
plant to provide optionality to upgrade approximately 50% of the plant's current 470 million-gallon
renewable diesel annual production capacity to neat SAF.
• Exporting lower carbon transportation fuels produced with low-carbon hydrogen.
• Supporting the development of a prototype to reduce CO2 from internal combustion engines with an
onboard tailpipe carbon capture system.
Safety and Environmental Performance
• Achieved our best-ever refinery environment performance in 2023 as measured by environmental
scorecard metrics.
• Accomplished our best-ever refining segment mechanical availability of 97.4% in 2023, which
minimizes environmental impacts and avoids unplanned downtime.
6
Highlights
Social Governance
• Generated more than $77.6 million for charities Executive Compensation Linked to HSE,
in 2023 to support education and workforce
Sustainability and Climate-Related
development, healthcare, housing and basic
Initiatives
needs, and food security.
• Annual bonus program, including metrics
• Recorded more than 129,400 employee volunteer
for health, safety and environment (HSE)
hours in 2023.
performance, as well as sustainability efforts
• Continued to foster a strong team culture that
and improvements.
supports our employees and is built upon our
• Performance shares component of long-
value of employee talents, experience, education
term incentive program tying executive
and perspectives.
compensation to Valero’s low-carbon fuels
• Continued to attract and retain top talent
strategy.
through our competitive and comprehensive
Board Diversity
compensation and Total Wellness benefits and
programs. • 100% of our committee chairs either women or
• Supported personal and professional racially/ethnically diverse.
development through training and growth • Of our directors, 36.4% women and 36.4%
opportunities. racially/ethnically diverse.
• Conducted a voluntary independent third- Cybersecurity
party audit in 2023, which concluded that
• Enterprise approach to information security risk
Valero’s commitment to environmental
management and governance:
justice, environmental protection, community
o Periodic third-party expert cybersecurity
engagement and involvement, and community
and risk assessment testing, including
investment goes beyond compliance and aligns
annual payment card industry data security
with environmental justice pillars as described by
standard testing and firewall reviews,
the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).
penetration testing as needed and periodic
review of our information security framework.
o Annual incident response exercise/security
Other ESG Disclosures
incident simulation with company-wide
cross-functional team facilitated by a third-
• SASB Report (page 76 on this Report) party expert.
• TCFD Report (IEA Net Zero by 2050), including a • Mandatory cybersecurity training at least
value chain analysis for GHG emissions annually for all employees and annual
• Environmental Justice Audit Report cybersecurity awareness month campaign.
• Climate-Lobbying Report
Other Governance
• EEO-1 Report
• Mandatory training on compliance and ethics
• Limited Assurance Statements: Scope 1, Scope
matters for all employees and contractors.
2 and Use of Product GHG Emissions Intensity,
• Annual company-wide corporate compliance
low-carbon fuel displacements and validation of
and ethics week awareness campaign.
2035 GHG emissions target
• Reporting political disclosures, including
Visit our website at www.valero.com > Investors >
contributions, lobbying and trade associations.
ESG
Environmental, Social and Governance Report • 7
Valero’s Strategy
Our strategic actions have enabled us to be a low-cost, efficient, reliable and leading producer of liquid
transportation fuels for the world. Liquid transportation fuels use existing infrastructure, are affordable and scalable,
and we believe they will continue to be essential products well into the future as global energy supply increases to
meet the demand created by a growing world population and economic output.
Throughout Valero’s history, we have proactively managed our business portfolio through acquisitions and divestitures
and have made strategic investments to build a portfolio of assets that we expect to thrive under most reasonable
energy demand forecasts.
Valero is the world’s premier independent refiner with a demonstrated
commitment to capital discipline, innovation and unmatched execution
Refining
Many of our refineries are located in regions with Long-term competitive advantage3
advantaged operating expenses, raw material
costs and access to skilled labor. Many of our $3,529
investments have resulted in a high-complexity
coastal refining system that offers extensive
Free Cash Flow
connectivity to inland and imported crudes, as
well as operational flexibility to process a wide n Peer Range
Average Free Cash Flow
range of feedstocks. An extensive wholesale
2012-2023
network receives more than 1.5 million barrels per
day (more than 50% of our light products), and our
global operations support optimization of product $0
exports. ($ in millions)
Operational and supply flexibility coupled with low-cost operations drive profitability3
$3.00
8
4102 5102 6102 7102 8102 9102 0202 1202 2202 3202
Refining Segment Cash Operating Expenses Refining Segment Adjusted EBITDA
Per Barrel of Throughput Per Barrel of Throughput
(excludes turnaround and D&A expenses) (excludes turnaround and D&A expenses)
n
Peer Range
$9.00 $18.00 $7.50
-$4.00 $4.00
10-Year
Average
8
4102 5102 6102 7102 8102 9102 0202 1202 2202 3202
n
Peer Range
Peer group includes PSX, MPC, DINO and PBF.
See non-GAAP disclosures beginning on page 80.
Strategy
Independent
assessments of our The world is calling for low-carbon
refining strategy, alternatives...
under multiple carbon- Low-carbon fuels and carbon capture and storage (CCS), which
are key components of Valero’s low-carbon fuels strategy and
constrained scenarios,
its GHG emissions targets, are viewed by both the United Nations
found Valero's overall (U.N.) Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC)5 and
refining portfolio to be IEA6 as critical to 1.5°C-aligned, net zero by 2050 ambitions.
Furthermore, the U.N. Climate Change Conference (COP28)
resilient
resulted in a multilateral agreement, published on December
Responding to the requests of certain 13, 2023, that explicitly calls for contributions to rapid and
stakeholders regarding independent sustained reductions in GHG emissions with efforts such as:
assessments of the resilience of • “Utilizing zero- and low-carbon fuels”
our strategy under hypothetical oil
• “[A]ccelerating zero- and low-emission technologies,
and biofuel demand scenarios, we
including, inter alia, renewables, nuclear, abatement
have issued three reports following
and removal technologies such as carbon capture and
the recommendations of the Task utilization and storage, particularly in hard-to-abate
Force on Climate-Related Financial sectors and low-carbon hydrogen production”7
Disclosures (TCFD) and using multiple
Attended by some 85,000 participants from nearly 200
demand scenarios. Our first TCFD
countries, the COP28 agreement also explicitly “[r]ecognizes
report, the Review of Climate- that transitional fuels can play a role in facilitating the energy
related Risks and Opportunities, was transition while ensuring energy security.”8
published in September 2018. At that
Additionally, the U.S. Department of Energy recently published a
time, we engaged HSB Solomon
report on pathways to decarbonize the refining industry, which
Associates (Solomon), a leading
describes phased approaches for refiners to achieve net zero by
refining benchmarking data provider leveraging technologies such as clean hydrogen, CCS and bio-
and advisory firm, to conduct an based feedstocks/low-carbon fuels, among others.9
independent analysis under multiple
The conclusions from these influential organizations and
demand scenarios, including the
initiatives that explicitly place importance on low-carbon fuels
potential transition to a lower-carbon and CCS projects have informed and reaffirmed Valero’s views
economy consistent with one of the on the key role of its current low-carbon fuels strategy and GHG
International Energy Agency's (IEA) emissions targets. Low-carbon fuels, CCS and other low-carbon
2°C scenarios. In the 2021 TCFD Report projects are also supported and incentivized by the regulations,
and Scenario Analysis, Solomon policies and standards of various government authorities around
examined our refining business the world.
and reviewed the resilience of our ...Valero is answering that call!
strategy under the IEA’s Sustainable
Development Scenario (SDS), referred
to as a well-below 2°C scenario. And
in the 2022 TCFD Report, Solomon
We still encounter certain stakeholders who recognize
conducted an independent scenario
the value of our low-carbon fuels initiatives and CCS
analysis based on the assumptions
projects but give no credit to these efforts when
of the IEA Net Zero by 2050 Scenario,
accounting for GHG emissions reductions, and would
as applied by Solomon. The
like us to exclusively focus on significant reductions
assessments in such reports found
from our refineries (which can only be accomplished by
Valero’s overall refining portfolio to
curtailing production or closing assets).
be resilient.4
Environmental, Social and Governance Report • 9
Low-Carbon Innovation
For Valero, investments in low-carbon fuels that began in 2009 have Today, Valero is the world’s largest
provided an advantage for the company to capture market opportunities. producer of liquid low-carbon
As of December 31, 2023, we have invested more than $5.4 billion in our
transportation fuels.
low-carbon businesses, and we expect additional growth opportunities
in this area. These investments, which have been held to the same minimum after-tax IRR hurdle rate as our refining
growth projects, have created value for our stockholders and lowered GHG emissions in the transportation sector.
The following are examples of high-return, low-carbon projects that we are producing, developing and/or evaluating:
Renewable Diesel, Renewable Naphtha and Renewable Propane
A drop-in fuel interchangeable with petroleum diesel, Renewable propane, similarly, has multiple end
our renewable diesel is manufactured primarily from uses, including as a low-carbon fuel, a renewable
waste feedstocks, including used cooking oil, recycled petrochemical feedstock or a feedstock in the production
animal fats and inedible corn oil, as well as other of low-carbon hydrogen. Currently, renewable propane
feedstocks such as soybean oil. These feedstocks from our renewable diesel plants is co-processed in
are pretreated and purified prior to conversion the hydrogen plants at two of our refineries to generate
into renewable diesel and niche grades, such as low-carbon hydrogen. The low-carbon hydrogen is re-
renewable arctic diesel. routed into the production process further decreasing
the carbon intensity (CI) of renewable diesel, renewable
Renewable diesel reduces life cycle
propane and renewable naphtha.
GHG emissions by up to 80%, compared
We are also co-processing renewable natural gas from
with traditional diesel.2
municipal solid waste in the hydrogen plant at one of
Valero is the world’s second-largest renewable diesel our refineries. The low-carbon hydrogen is used in the
producer and currently operates two renewable production of lower carbon transportation fuels for export
diesel plants located in St. Charles Parish, Louisiana, to Europe. This fuel has a higher market value compared
and Port Arthur, Texas, with a total annual production with petroleum fuels, and certain governments in Europe
capacity of 1.2 billion gallons of renewable diesel and use it to help meet GHG emissions reduction targets
50 million gallons of renewable naphtha. or goals. In 2023, we processed nearly 2 trillion BTUs
of renewable natural gas, which doubled the amount
Renewable naphtha and renewable propane are
processed in 2022.
produced in the process and recovered as co-
products. With an annual production capacity of 50
Since 2013, Valero has grown to become
million gallons, renewable naphtha can be used as a
the world's second-largest producer of
gasoline blendstock or a feedstock for producing low-
renewable diesel.
carbon petrochemicals.
Ethanol
Ethanol is a low-carbon, high-octane fuel. When used as a gasoline Ethanol offers at least 30% lower life
blendstock, ethanol boosts the octane rating of the finished fuel. cycle GHG emissions, compared
Valero operates 12 ethanol plants located in the U.S. Midwest, with with petroleum gasoline.2
a combined production capacity of 1.6 billion gallons per year. The
plants are dry mill facilities that process corn to produce ethanol and co-products, such as dry distillers grains
(DDGs) and syrup for livestock feed, and inedible corn oil. DDGs and syrup are sources of supplemental energy and
protein for livestock and poultry.
10
Low-Carbon
Sustainable Aviation Fuel or SAF
Made with feedstocks used in the renewable diesel process, synthetic paraffinic The commonly used term,
kerosene (SPK) or neat SAF is a non-petroleum-based fuel. Blending SPK and SAF, includes a wide range
traditional jet fuel results in SAF, and current aviation regulations allow SPK to be of neat SAF blended with
blended up to 50% with jet fuel for use in an aircraft. Valero has announced a
jet fuel. Based on ASTM,
large-scale SAF project at its renewable diesel plant in Texas, which is expected
the industry standard
to be completed in the fourth quarter of 2024. The SAF project is intended to
specification, the
provide optionality to upgrade approximately 50% of the plant's annual 470
maximum blending limit
million-gallon renewable diesel production capacity to SPK. See global SAF
for neat SAF is 50%.13
mandates to decrease GHG emissions in the aviation sector on page 15.
An alternative pathway for producing SAF is the alcohol-to-jet (ATJ) process. With abundant supply of ethanol,
Valero’s participation in carbon sequestration projects may provide a competitive advantage for ATJ production,
as the CI of ethanol is expected to decrease by more than 40% with carbon sequestration.
Benefits of Renewable Arctic Diesel10 11 12 - The cold truth is that winter Fiber Cellulosic Ethanol
temperatures greatly affect the charging and range of electric
In addition to starch ethanol,
vehicle (EV) batteries. Unlike EVs, renewable arctic diesel is designed
we use an enzymatic process
to withstand freezing temperatures in arctic climates and maintain
to convert waste fibers into
its performance.
cellulosic ethanol, a second-
generation fuel.
Renewable Arctic Diesel
EVs in Cold Temperatures
(Arctic RD)
"When [cellulosic ethanol
Arctic RD is a drop-in fuel, is] used as a vehicle
The lower the temperature, the
just like renewable diesel, fuel, it can support deep
longer it can take to charge EV
made to withstand freezing
batteries. reductions in [life cycle]
temperatures.
greenhouse gas emissions,
Cold can decrease battery with a carbon footprint 73%
power, making it challenging Vehicles powered with Arctic RD
smaller than conventional
to fulfill optimal charge range can use all accessories, just like
and accessories, such as cabin in any other liquid fuel-powered gasoline."15
heating, seat heating or defrosting vehicle.
functions. Compared to gasoline’s CI of
approximately 100 gCO2e/MJ
EV driving range can start to and EV's average CI of about
Emergency vehicles running
deplete at 40°F, an unexpected
on Arctic RD are reliable and
50 gCO2e/MJ (depending
concern if you are not in proximity
dependable. upon battery components,
to chargers.
manufacturing place and the
electric grid),14 cellulosic ethanol
In cold temperatures, EVs may Refueling of Arctic RD is quick,
need to be recharged more and frequency is not affected by has a CI in the high 20s.15
frequently. temperatures. When combined with carbon
sequestration, the cellulosic
According to Consumer Reports: ethanol product can have a
CI in the single digits, further
“…we found that short trips in the cold with frequent stops and the
need to reheat the cabin saps 50 percent of the range [of an EV].”11 increasing the value of ethanol
in low-carbon markets.
“Under the coldest conditions, the rate of charging [of an EV] was
roughly three times slower than at warmer temperatures.”12
Environmental, Social and Governance Report • 11
Tailpipe CO Onboard Capture System
2
Valero continues to support Southwest Research Institute (SwRI) in the development of a solid CO2 separation
membrane to remove CO2 from the exhaust gas of internal combustion engine vehicles, with the objective of
providing an affordable solution to lowering GHG emissions. To date, SwRI has improved upon the initial concept
and demonstrated performance enhancements through design and optimization efforts.
Plans are in place for prototype scaling and testing,
and we have filed patent applications for several novel
technologies. If successful on a commercial scale, cars
built with this technology could compete with EVs as
a low-cost solution for reducing tailpipe emissions.
In addition, even greater benefits to life cycle GHG
emissions reductions are possible if low-carbon fuels are
used in combination with the onboard capture system.
Carbon Capture
Industrial Carbon Capture — Valero first used carbon capture technology in 2013
and Storage or
at its refinery in Port Arthur, Texas. Approximately 1 million metric tons of CO2 per
CCS
year is captured from two third-party hydrogen plants that produce hydrogen
CCS is a proven from natural gas.
technology that has
Large-Scale CCS —
been in commercial
Valero has agreed
use for decades in
to participate as a NORTH
the oil and gas and DAKOTA
shipper on Summit PROPOSED
fertilizer industries. It SUMMIT PIPELINE
Carbon Solutions'
involves three steps:
proposed pipeline
1. Capture:
project by connecting
MINNESOTA
Separation of CO2
eight of Valero's
from other gases
ethanol plants and SOUTH AURORA
produced at industrial DAKOTA
enabling the capture
process facilities. WELCOME
and storage of LAKOTA
CHARLES CITY
2. Transport: approximately HARTLEY
Separated CO2 3.1 million metric tons FORT DODGE
ALBERT
dehydrated and CO2 annually, which CITY
compressed prior to could potentially NEBRASKA IOWA
ALBION
being transported by reduce Valero's
pipeline, rail, trucks or ethanol's CI by
ships for storage. approximately 40%.
3. Storage:
Stand-Alone CCS — We are continuing to evaluate and develop stand-alone
CO2 destined for
carbon sequestration projects at several of our Eastern ethanol plants, potentially
permanent storage
and injected into deep
capturing more than 1 million metric tons of CO2 a year. Certain of our ethanol
plants are located near geology believed to be suitable for successful CCS
rock formations.
projects, making them potentially attractive for development.
12
Low-Carbon
About Low-Carbon Fuels
What is carbon intensity or CI?
CI means the quantity of life cycle GHG emissions for a particular fuel per unit of transportation energy delivered,
which is expressed in grams of carbon dioxide equivalent per megajoule (gCO2e/MJ).
What is life cycle analysis or LCA?
It is a cradle-to-grave analysis. In the case
FEEDSTOCK FUEL PRODUCTION USE OF THE
of liquid transportation fuels, life cycle PRODUCTION AND AND DISTRIBUTION FINISHED FUEL
analysis (LCA) means calculation of the TRANSPORTATION
aggregate quantity of GHG emissions
CROP-BASED AND LOW-CARBON FUEL TRANSPORTATION
related to the full fuel life cycle, including WASTE FACILITY FUEL
all stages of fuel and feedstock production
and distribution, from feedstock generation
or extraction through the distribution,
delivery and use of the finished fuel by
the ultimate consumer, as depicted in the Energy Inputs Process Energy Use
Chemical Inputs Material Inputs
graphic to the right.
Do low-carbon fuels reduce GHG emissions?
Yes, low-carbon fuels reduce life cycle GHG emissions. In the case of corn ethanol, our product offers at least 30%
lower life cycle GHG emissions,2 compared with petroleum gasoline. The reduction percentage could be higher
if certain feedstocks such as corn kernel fiber are used or if the energy intensity in ethanol's production or supply
chain decreases.
Depending on the feedstocks and the LCA pathway, renewable diesel offers up to 80% lower life cycle GHG
emissions,2 compared with traditional diesel. The reduction percentage changes depending on the LCA
methodology or pathway, feedstocks and energy intensity in the supply chain, such as feedstock gathering
mileage or distribution mileage of finished product. In addition, global low-carbon fuel programs calculate life
cycle GHG emissions with different assumptions, which can also affect the differential between the CI of renewable
diesel and the CI of the diesel benchmark.
Are there enough feedstocks to
produce low-carbon fuels?
Our ethanol and renewable diesel plants
are in advantaged locations. In the
case of ethanol, the U.S. Midwest offers
Appetites that fuel our low-carbon fuels — More than abundant corn supply. Our renewable diesel
150,000 restaurants, supermarket chains, casinos, production is competitively located in the
theme parks, stadiums and arenas nationwide U.S. Gulf Coast with access to domestic and
provide used cooking oil to our joint venture member global feedstocks, which allows for flexibility
for conversion into renewable diesel, much of which is of supply of used cooking oil, animal fats,
processed at our renewable diesel facilities.16 soybean oil and corn oil. In addition, the
other member of our renewable diesel joint
venture is the world's largest renderer, which
provides a source of animal fats.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report • 13
Do low-carbon fuels have tailpipe Are Valero's GHG emissions of low-carbon
emissions? fuels audited and certified?
Yes, low-carbon fuels combust just like the fossil Yes, our low-carbon fuels are audited and certified not
fuel counterparts. However, low-carbon fuels have only as part of the limited assurance engagement by
lower life cycle emissions than fossil fuels due to the external auditors but also by independent auditors
biological origins of the feedstock. For instance, in representing the countries, states or provinces where we
life cycle GHG emissions calculations, the tailpipe sell low-carbon fuels.
emissions released from combusting ethanol are
In the case of California’s LCFS, each certified pathway
offset by the carbon uptake during new corn crop
follows very stringent rules and certifications processes.
growth. As a result, vehicles running on low-carbon
As of 2023, California’s LCFS had certified more than
fuels produce less net CO2 per mile traveled than
1,350 fuel pathways of low-carbon fuel CI calculations.
vehicles running on conventional fuels.
Pathways are “[v]ariations in feedstock types, origin,
raw material production processing efficiencies and
Do low-carbon fuels displace fossil fuels?
transportation,” all of which contribute to an individual
Yes, California, one of the world's largest consumers
producer’s fuel pathway CI18 and are independently
of low-carbon fuels, has reported that, even with
verified. California's certifications are based upon ISO
increased population and economic growth, more
14064-3 and 14065. The EU requires certification bodies
than 44% of transportation diesel and more than 6%
be accredited to ISO 17065 and 14065 and for audits to be
of gasoline have been displaced by low-carbon fuels
conducted in accordance with ISO 19011 or the equivalent.
since 2011.17
In 2023, more than 50 independent verifications were
conducted on our low-carbon fuels production, some of
Where are Valero's low-carbon fuels
which included a partial or full traceability review of the
sold?
supply chain.
Our low-carbon fuels are sold around the world,
including continental Europe, Scandinavia, the U.K., Why don’t you use the GHG Protocol to
Latin America, Mexico, Canada and the United States,
measure the carbon content of your low-
especially in California, Oregon and Washington. We
carbon businesses?
believe that our ability to supply these low-carbon
We don’t use it because the GHG Protocol is inconsistent
fuels can play an important role for governments
with global low-carbon fuel regulations, which base CI
and others to achieve their GHG emissions reduction
calculations on LCA and account for the full fuel life cycle.
targets. See table below for global low-carbon fuel
For instance, combustion of biofuels is not part of the
regulations and table on page 15 for global SAF.
accounting of Scope 3, Category 11 in the GHG Protocol.
Global Low-Carbon Fuel Regulations19
2030 GHG Emissions Net Zero GHG Primary Transportation Fuel Policy
2030 Transportation Fuels Goal
Reduction Target Emissions Target Mechanism
Reduce the CI of transportation fuels
California 40% Net zero by 2045 Low Carbon Fuel Standard (LCFS)
by at least 20%
Canada 40 to 45% Net zero by 2050 Clean Fuel Regulations (CFR) Reduce the CI of transportation fuels by 15%
Replace 29% of transport fuels with renewable
EU 55% Net zero by 2050 Renewable Energy Directive III (REDIII)
energy, or reduce sector GHG intensity by 14.5%
Renewable Transport Fuel Obligation Replace 19% of transport fuels
UK 68% Net zero by 2050
(RTFO) with renewable fuels
• Oregon’s Clean Fuels Program requires a 20% CI reduction by 2030 and a 37% reduction by 2035.
• Washington State’s Clean Fuel Standard requires a 20% CI reduction by 2034.
Other • New Mexico enacted a Clean Fuel Standard in 2024, for implementation in 2026.
Policies • British Columbia's LCFS requires a 30% CI reduction by 2030.
in Place • Norway has a biofuel blending mandate for diesel of 40% by 2030.
• Sweden currently has a diesel GHG reduction requirement of 66% by 2030.
• Finland aims for 34% of transport fuels to be biofuels by 2030.
Potential • Hawaii, Illinois, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, New Jersey, New York, Nevada and Vermont are considering low-carbon fuel
Policies programs.
14
Low-Carbon
Indirect Land Use Change (ILUC) negatively impacts certain domestic crop-based biofuels, benefits
certain imported biofuels, and does not fairly penalize land used for all renewable energy and mining.
Most of the biofuels policies commonly assess ILUC penalties to account for indirect land conversion that potentially
result from increased biofuels demand. These ILUC penalties – which tend to be fixed values rather than reflecting
the actual practices of the feedstock producer – can account for more than half of a biofuel's carbon intensity and
be the ultimate determiner of the fuel's qualification under low-carbon programs. As shown in the charts below,
the EPA Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS) penalizes soybean with an ILUC of 80% of the entire CI calculation, and corn
ethanol with an ILUC of 36% of the CI. While California’s LCFS penalizes soybean with 47% of the CI and corn ethanol
with an ILUC of 28% of the CI of the fuel. These are among the highest of such penalties imposed on U.S. biofuels
programs. By contrast, the same models assign a much lower ILUC penalty to Brazilian sugarcane ethanol. For
instance, the RFS penalizes sugarcane ethanol by only 13% of the CI20 and the LCFS assigns the lower penalty of all
biofuels to sugarcane ethanol.21
Corn Ethanol/SAF Soybean Oil BD/RD/SAF
EPA RFS EPA RFS
CA LCFS CA LCFS
Canada CFR Canada CFR
40B BTC 40B BTC
ICAO CORSIA ICAO CORSIA
0 20 40 60 80 100 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70
CI (gCO2e/MJ) CI (gCO2e/MJ)
non-ILUC Potential reduction for ag practices ILUC non-ILUC Potential reduction for ag practices ILUC
See Notes 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27 and 28 on page 78 for chart details.
Canada’s CFR excludes ILUC from the model due to limitations such as lack of data and high uncertainty.24 25
Inconsistently, ILUC penalties are not extended to the installation of solar arrays, wind turbines, or the extraction of
minerals to support EV batteries, despite their potential for significant direct and induced land use changes. For
instance, the Department of Energy projects that 10.4 million acres of solar arrays will be needed to help decarbonize
the nation’s power grid – as much as 83% of that acreage will likely be farmland,29 which will need to be replaced.
Valero supports policies that eliminate inconsistencies in emissions calculations that disadvantage
U.S. domestic crop-based biofuels. If ILUC is not entirely excluded (as in the case of solar arrays and
stripped mining), at least, long-standing farmland in the U.S. Midwest should not be treated unfavorably
compared with foreign crop-based fuels coming from potentially new deforested land.
Global SAF Mandates30
Jurisdiction SAF Mandates
CORSIA
Program aims to offset growth in CO2 emissions from international aviation above 85% of 2019 CO2 emissions. Participation is
voluntary over 2021-2026 and becomes mandatory for participating nations starting in 2027.
EU SAF mandate of 2% in 2025, 6% in 2030, 20% in 2035, 34% in 2040, 42% in 2045 and 70% in 2050.
France SAF mandate of 1% in 2022, 1.5% in 2024 and 2% in 2025.
Germany National implementation of RED II includes power-to-liquid. SAF sub-mandate of 0.5% in 2026, 1% in 2028 and 2% in 2030.
Malaysia SAF mandate of 1% in 2026 and 47% in 2050.
Norway SAF mandate of 0.5% in 2020 and 30% in 2030.
Singapore SAF mandate of 1% in 2026 on outbound flights, possibly rising to 3%-5% in 2030, depending on availability and adoption.
Sweden SAF mandate of 1% in 2021 and 30% in 2030.
British Columbia
SAF mandate of 1% in 2028, 2% in 2029 and 3% in 2030.
(Canada)
UK SAF mandate of 2% in 2025, 10% in 2030 and 22% in 2040. Expected to be adopted in 2024.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report • 15
Climate Solutions Should be
Efficient - EV Mandates are Not
We are often asked by stakeholders about EV mandates and how liquid transportation fuels compared with EVs in
terms of performance, affordability and environmental impacts.
EV charging infrastructure is lagging and requires costly changes in existing power grids.
• Achieving the EPA’s demand of widespread EV adoption is estimated to cost around $1 trillion in grid updates by
2035.31
• Fewer than 10% of American consumers consider current EV charging infrastructure to be sufficient.32
• Estimates show that it could take $55 billion to meet charging needs, but the current U.S. Administration has
only set aside $7.5 billion.33
Renewable diesel is a drop-in fuel and can result in lower life cycle GHG
emissions than EVs. It is 100% compatible with existing diesel engines, so
no new infrastructure is needed.
Light-Duty Vehicle Emits Fewer Diesel Engine with Renewable Diesel
Emissions than an Electric Vehicle34 Outperforms Battery Electric Vehicle34
2022 Southwest Research Institute Study 2022 Southwest Research Institute Study
(U.S. light-duty vehicle life cycle emissions) (U.S. heavy-duty long-haul vehicle life cycle emissions)
g CO2 / mile Tons CO 2 60% fewer emissions
"Zero emissions" 1,600 than an EV after 1,000,000
300 vehicles are not zero emissions miles traveled
1,400
250
1,200
200 1,000
800
150
600
100
400
50 200
0 0
Battery Electric Diesel Engine with Embedded Emissions 500,000 Miles 1,000,000 Miles
Vehicle Renewable Diesel (zero miles traveled) Traveled Traveled
(waste oil based)
Electricity/ Embedded Battery Electric Diesel Engine with
Fuel Emissions Emissions Vehicle Renewable Diesel
The amount of critical minerals used in one battery
electric vehicle could be used to make 6 plug-in
hybrid electric vehicles or 90 hybrid electric vehicles.
The overall carbon reduction of those 90 hybrids over
their lifetimes is 37 times as much as a single battery
electric vehicle.35
1 Battery Electric 6 Plug-in Hybrid 90 Hybrid Electric
Vehicle Electric Vehicles Vehicles
16
Low-Carbon
EV mandates are infeasible and require a seismic surge in mineral production (i.e.,
lithium's global demand is predicted to increase 40-fold from 2020 to 2040).36
• Foreign countries of concern dominate the entire EV battery supply chain (including mining, material
processing, cell components, battery cells and EV manufacturing). Certain locations where these activities
take place have been associated with allegations of human rights violations, forced and child labor, and
environmental degradation claims.37
• The current U.S. Administration is attempting to shift mining and processing of critical minerals to domestic
sites with more regulations, but these new mining sites often face significant opposition and permitting
obstacles, and could take an average of 16.5 years to be fully functional.38
China dominates the downstream and midstream global EV battery supply chain36
Geographical distribution of the global EV battery supply chain, 2023
Mining Material processing Cell components Battery cells EVs
100%
75% Source:
International
Energy Agency
(2024), Global
50% Critical
Minerals
Outlook 2024,
25% page 30, IEA,
Paris.
0%
Li Ni Co Gr Li Ni Co Gr Cathode Anode Batteries EVs
China Europe United States Japan Korea DRC Australia Chile Indonesia Russia Other
Low-carbon fuels such as renewable diesel and ethanol are
available today and can reduce GHG emissions right now.
EV mandates are not affordable for many working families and will limit their physical
and economic mobility.
• Current plans for EVs in California impair access to reliable
46% of U.S. EV drivers want to go
and affordable vehicles for low- and moderate-income
back to gas-powered cars.40
communities.39
• EV mandates will disproportionately affect lower-income people More than 68% of U.S. adults believe
by pushing them out to farther suburbs, increasing costs of living, a mix of fuels should be used.41
and limiting job opportunities and school options.39
"Our community members cannot afford $40,000 electric vehicles, or pay
more than $15,000 to replace the batteries in a 'used' electric vehicle."
- The Two Hundred, civil right leaders committed to closing the wealth gap
of hard-working families and individuals.
Instead of EV mandates, we support the use of transportation choices
and are currently supporting the development of a wide range
of solutions to reduce GHG emissions, from cellulosic ethanol to
sustainable aviation fuel and a tailpipe CO onboard capture system.
2
Environmental, Social and Governance Report • 17
42
GHG Emissions
Value Chain Analysis
With the intent to address the demands of some stakeholders to disclose Scope 3 GHG emissions, we conducted a
value chain analysis. The analysis proved to be complicated and yielded insufficient data to meaningfully quantify
GHG emissions related to the use of the products we manufacture and highlighted the difficulty in accurately
assessing upstream and downstream carbon emissions.
With approximately three million transactions conducted
yearly with more than 3,000 counterparties upstream and
downstream of our refineries (for feedstock purchases
and product sales, respectively), we found that many of
our crude oil feedstock suppliers provided limited or no
public disclosure of Scopes 1 and 2 GHG emissions. Similarly, an analysis of our more than 2,800 customers revealed
that many, including some of the largest purchasers of our fuels, have limited or no public disclosure of Scopes 1 and
2 GHG emissions. Furthermore, as a merchant refiner, we are unable to ascertain the final use of all of our products.
Although most of our products are sold as transportation fuels, some of our products have multiple potential uses.
For example, some of our products, including naphtha and liquefied petroleum gases, have several downstream uses
aside from combustion, such as in plastics and petrochemicals production.
After careful consideration, the lack of publicly available GHG emissions disclosures proved to be an insurmountable
hurdle for accurately calculating our value chain GHG emissions. Another limitation of the value chain analysis and
methodologies, such as the GHG Protocol, is its inability to take into consideration the life cycle GHG emissions
benefits from low-carbon fuels.
To address the limitations of the value chain analysis, we introduced a metric called Use of Product GHG Emissions
Intensity, which is the GHG emissions intensity of the assumed use of company-wide products on a per barrel basis,
and recently, we added the same metric on a per unit of energy basis. Further details on these metrics are provided
on pages 20 and 21.
Independent Limited Assurance
Since 2021, we have engaged one or more independent third parties to evaluate, validate and/or verify our GHG
emissions disclosures, which we intend to continue completing annually going forward. In 2024, this included
limited assurance on/of:
• Company-wide 2023 GHG emissions (Scopes 1 and 2), including refining, renewable diesel and ethanol.
• Company-wide 2023 GHG emissions reductions achieved with our renewable diesel and ethanol
production, as well as the blending of and credits from low-carbon fuels.
• Company-wide 2023 Use of Product GHG Emissions Intensity per barrel and per unit of energy.
• The validation of our 2035 GHG emissions target.
Copies of independent limited assurance verifications can be found on our website at www.valero.com >
Investors > ESG > Other Reports. All calculations were found to be science-based and in conformity with
acceptable engineering practices.
18
GHG Emissions
32.3
2025 Short-Term Target1
In 2022, three years ahead of schedule, we achieved
our 2025 GHG emissions target to reduce and
displace the equivalent to 63% of the tonnage from
our global refinery GHG emissions (Scopes 1 and 2). In 63%
Target
2023, we continued to exceed this target.
Refinery GHG Emissions 2023
in 2011 (Scopes 1 & 2)
2035 Medium-Term Target1
Our GHG emissions target reflects our unique strategy. Refinery absolute reductions and our low-carbon
projects are expected to generate reductions and displacements equivalent to 100% of the tonnage from our
global refinery GHG emissions (Scopes 1 and 2) by 2035. Each component below showcases our strategy:
Environmental, Social and Governance Report • 19
eOC
TM
noilliM
2
Total Reductions and Displacements
2038 Update
By 2038, refinery absolute reductions and our low-carbon projects are expected to generate reductions and
displacements equivalent to 100% of the tonnage of the GHG emissions from our refining, renewable diesel and
ethanol business segments (Scopes 1 and 2), including from refining, ethanol and renewable diesel production.
2050 Long-Term Ambition
By 2050, Valero has an ambition to reduce and displace company-wide GHG emissions for Scopes 1, 2, 3 and 4
by more than 45 million metric tons CO2e.
Our Progress up to 2023
Scope 1 Intensity - GHG emissions from the refining process relative to refining peers
The chart to the right
Peer Range Valero
55
compares Valero’s
global refinery Scope 1
50
intensity in million metric
tons CO 2e per thousand 45
barrels of oil equivalent
(BOE), relative to peers’ 40
performance using 35
peers’ publicly available
disclosures, including 30
annual reports on Forms
10-K and sustainability 25
reports.
20
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Refining peer group includes PSX,
MPC, DINO and PBF.
GLOBAL REFINING 2021 2022 2023
Refining throughput of crude oil and other feedstocks (million BOE) 1,017.3 1,077.8 1,087.3
GHG emissions, Scope 1 (million metric tons COe) 23.7 24.8 24.9
2
GHG emissions, Scope 2 Market-based (million metric tons COe) 4.9 4.9 5.1
2
GHG emissions, Scope 2 Location-based (million metric tons COe) 5.0 5.0 5.2
2
LOW-CARBON FUELS 2021 2022 2023
GHG emissions, Scope 1 (million metric tons COe) 2.1 2.1 2.3
2
GHG emissions, Scope 2 Market-based (million metric tons COe) 0.5 0.5 0.5
2
GHG emissions, Scope 2 Location-based (million metric tons COe) 0.5 0.5 0.5
2
GHG emissions reduction achieved with displacements (million metric tons COe) 16.7 20.5 22.4
2
COMPANY-WIDE GHG EMISSIONS INTENSITY FROM THE USE OF PRODUCTS 2021 2022 2023
Use of Product GHG emissions Intensity per barrel (Kg COe / bbl) 266 266 253
2
Use of Product GHG emissions Intensity per unit of energy (g COe / MJ) 51 51 48
2
20
EOEBO
dB
ndansausuoohht
tr
erepp
e e22OOCC
ssnnoott
cciirrtteemM
GHG Emissions
GHG Emissions Methodologies
There is not currently a standardized methodology for calculating GHG emissions. For instance, direct GHG
emissions that result from on-site sources controlled and owned by the firm, commonly referred to as Scope 1,
can be calculated using different parameters and methodologies. Another well-known example is the calculation
of Scope 3, which is inherently unreliable because of the varying interpretations of indirect emissions that are a
consequence of the activities of the company, but are outside of its control.
At Valero, we have complied with mandated GHG emissions reporting requirements for more than a decade. As a
result, we have established a robust process to disclose our GHG emissions inventory following the GHG emissions
regulatory frameworks in the U.S., Canada and the U.K., and global LCA regulations applicable to low-carbon fuels.
The methodologies we use to calculate our GHG emissions reporting are described below:
Direct GHG emissions (also known as Scope 1): corporate and renewable diesel sales using energy factors (MJ/gal)
disclosure of our Scope 1 GHG emissions from fuel combustion from the California Air Resources Board’s Greenhouse Gas,
and hydrogen production sources at our 15 petroleum refineries Regulated Emissions, and Energy Use in Transportation 3.0
can be estimated following the GHG reporting program model (CA-GREET3.0 model) used by California’s Low Carbon
obligations under U.S. 40 CFR Part 98 (Subparts C, P, Y and PP); Fuel Standard (LCFS).
the Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2018/2066 of 19
December 2018 on the monitoring and reporting of greenhouse Displacements: this represents the tonnage reduction
gas emissions pursuant to Directive 2003/87/EC of the European
of GHG emissions equivalent (CO2e) that result from the
substitution of petroleum fuels with the production of,
Parliament and of the Council; and Quebec – Q-2, r. 15 -
blending of and credits from low-carbon fuels, including,
Regulation respecting mandatory reporting of certain emissions
but not limited to, products that we currently produce or
of contaminants into the atmosphere.
are expected to produce as part of our publicly available
We also calculate and separately disclose the direct GHG GHG emissions targets (such as ethanol, cellulosic ethanol,
emissions (Scope 1) from our 12 ethanol plants and 2 renewable renewable diesel, renewable naphtha, renewable propane
diesel plants following the GHG emissions reporting program and SPK or neat SAF), as well as low-carbon fuels we procure,
obligations under U.S. 40 CFR 98 (Subpart C). including ethanol and biodiesel. This calculation is based
on a comparison of low-carbon fuels LCA and the fossil fuel
Indirect GHG emissions from the consumption of energy and
benchmark LCA, which could vary depending on the product
steam purchased by the organization for its use (also known
and/or the jurisdiction.
as Scope 2): to calculate Scope 2, we follow the guidance
from two approaches in the GHG Protocol: market-based and For our production of renewable diesel, the CI estimations
location-based. We calculate Scope 2 for our three segments: are based on the actual market-based CI assigned to the
refining, ethanol and renewable diesel. product from the verifications and audits from jurisdictions
where renewable diesel production was sold. In the case
Scope 1 Intensity: to calculate the GHG emissions from the
of our production of ethanol, the CI estimations are based
refinery process per unit of throughput, we divide the global
on the Argonne National Laboratory GREET3.0 2021 model.
refinery Scope 1 in million metric tons CO2e (as described above)
Regarding the CI estimations for ethanol and biodiesel
by thousand BOE. Refining peer group includes PSX, MPC, DINO
that we procured to fulfill our blending obligations, we used
and PBF. Similarly, we calculated peers' Scopes 1 intensity by
the Argonne National Laboratory GREET3.0 2021 (ethanol)
dividing refining Scope 1 by refining throughput disclosures,
and 2019 (biodiesel) models and published papers. When
which were sourced from public filings, such as annual reports
calculating the displacements from blending and to avoid
on Forms 10-K and sustainability reports.
double counting, our low-carbon fuel production that
Indirect GHG emissions intensity from the use of products contributes to our blending obligation is excluded.
on a per barrel or per unit of energy basis: there is not
Under the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board's (SASB)
currently a standardized methodology for calculating Scope
Standards Application Guidance 3.0 Reporting Boundaries,
3 GHG emissions, and the inherent unreliability of Scope 3
as the operator of the consolidated entity, displacements
calculations renders such metric of limited value. At Valero,
include the entire production of renewable diesel, renewable
we have complied with mandated GHG emissions reporting
naphtha, renewable propane and SPK or neat SAF of the
requirements for more than a decade related to GHG emissions
consolidated entities that we operate.
of the use of our products, as required by the EPA. Therefore, for
the calculation of the numerator we follow the U.S. 40 CFR Part Scope 4: this calculation of avoided GHG emissions is used
98 (Subpart MM), which includes the complete combustion only in the 2050 Long-Term Ambition. It is informed by the
of each petroleum product and natural gas liquid produced, GHG Protocol for Project Accounting and does not follow the
used as feedstock, imported, or exported during the calendar LCA methodology. The calculation is based upon Valero's
year, based upon the carbon content of each material. The total production of, blending of and credits from ethanol,
numerator includes both the disclosure from our U.S. refineries and sales of, blending of and credits from renewable diesel,
as required under U.S. 40 CFR Part 98 (Subpart MM) and from renewable naphtha and biodiesel. The low-carbon fuels
our refineries in Canada and the U.K., in conformance with volumes were converted to energy-equivalent volumes of
U.S. 40 CFR Part 98 (Subpart MM). Because it is a company- the corresponding petroleum products and multiplied by the
wide reporting, the calculation of this metric includes the GHG emissions factors of the petroleum fuels. Energy densities
emissions from low-carbon fuels displacement of petroleum and emissions factors were sourced from the CA-GREET3.0
fuels (“displacements”) and the absolute GHG emissions model and U.S. 40 CFR Part 98 (Subpart MM). Under the SASB's
reductions from CCS, if any. Standards Application Guidance 3.0 Reporting Boundaries,
as the operator of the consolidated entity, our avoided GHG
The denominator in the intensity calculation in kg CO2e per
emissions include the entire production of renewable diesel,
thousand BOE is the company’s refining throughput, ethanol
renewable naphtha, renewable propane and SPK or neat SAF
production and renewable diesel sales. The denominator in
of the consolidated entities that we operate.
the intensity calculation per megajoule (MJ) is the total energy
from the company’s refining throughput, ethanol production
Environmental, Social and Governance Report • 21
Environment
We are committed to the responsible use and management
of natural resources.
Geospatial Measurement of Air Pollution (GMAP)
vans equipped with Duvas DV3000 instruments
are used to tour most of our refineries' fenceline
communities and allow for early response and
mitigation actions even on small emissions sources.
At Valero, we understand the importance of multibillion-dollar capital investments to sustain
protecting the natural environment, not just in the our operations as part of our commitment to safety,
future, but right now. As such, we are focused on reliability, preventive equipment maintenance
maintaining our operations in an environmentally and environmental responsible operations for our
responsible manner; investing in low-carbon refineries. Although we have formal processes
fuels production and renewable energy projects and environmental monitoring systems designed
that contribute toward reducing company-wide to protect our people, our communities and the
GHG emissions; and participating in ecological environment, we initiate mitigation actions as soon as
and conservation projects. We have made we identify an environmental event.
22
Environment
• Protecting People & Environment – We have
Environmental Management
a formal process to help identify and ensure
Systems (EMS)
that our ongoing operations are compliant with
Environmental Risk Management: We have employees all relevant health, safety and environmental
at each of our refineries, ethanol plants and renewable laws and regulations. Identifying and assessing
diesel plants dedicated to environmental excellence risks and potential environmental impacts are
and risk mitigation. Formal risk assessments, including also components of this process. Additionally,
hazard identification, risk evaluation, analysis and environmental performance indicators are
mitigation are implemented at every site. In addition, established, monitored and reported, and
we provide training so employees are skilled and programs and processes are in place to drive
competent to perform duties in an environmentally improvement.
responsible manner. Our compliance team monitors
• People & Skills Development – Training processes
and communicates changing regulations and
are in place to ensure that employees receive
helps to verify our operations comply with legal
appropriate training throughout their employment.
requirements. We have processes in place to assess
We expect our teams to effectively communicate
the implementation and effectiveness of operational
with and listen to each other, fostering an
controls and for tracking and evaluating environmental
environment of collaboration, creative thinking,
performance. Our programs are designed to ensure
teamwork and open communications.
documents are identified, managed and maintained,
• Operations Reliability & Mechanical Integrity –
as appropriate. Valero’s progress on environmental
Quality assurance programs, inspections and
management, including strategic planning, goals
preventive maintenance standards are in place
and objectives, is internally reviewed at least annually.
to ensure reliability of equipment. Valero’s internal
We use both internal and third-party audits in our
risk matrix is used to evaluate hazards, incident
approach to environmental management. These
investigations, recommendations, process hazards
audits and verifications are conducted to identify the
analysis results and high-risk activities.
adequacy and effectiveness of our environmental
• Technical Excellence & Knowledge Management –
controls, regulatory compliance and excellence vision.
The Project Development and Execution
Additionally, our Pembroke refinery is ISO 14001 certified.
Process (PDEP) is in place to incorporate health,
Valero has well-developed management structures
safety, environmental, reliability, operability,
central to decision-making and risk management,
maintainability and loss prevention standard
including three robust programs that help us oversee
requirements into the selection, development and
our environmental management.
execution of projects. An internal incident and
1. Commitment to Excellence significant near-miss reporting and investigation
Management System (CTEMS) process is in place, and a company-wide tracking
system is used to ensure timely sharing of
CTEMS is a proprietary systematic approach to
information and closure of corrective actions.
planning, executing, checking and acting to improve
• Change Management – A process is in place to
everyday work activities at many of our refineries and
ensure permanent and temporary changes are
plants. Within each of the nine elements of CTEMS, we
in accordance with the Valero Management of
have identified multiple expectations to achieve our
Change standard.
commitment to excellence, including:
• Business Competitiveness – Programs are in
• Leadership Accountability – Leaders at every level
place to improve energy and operating efficiency.
demonstrate their commitment and personal
Competitive benchmarks are used and evaluated,
accountability for operational excellence as a core
and gap closure plans are implemented. A
value through their active and visible participation
procurement process supports safe and reliable
in CTEMS. Leaders make employees aware of CTEMS
plant operations. Our annual strategic planning
expectations, actively involve them in the processes
drives business competitive improvement.
and share learning across the organization. They are
expected to review CTEMS performance results on an
annual basis.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report • 23
• External Stakeholder Relationships – Programs, such 3. Fuels Management System (FMS)
as community advisory panels or community advisory
FMS provides operational safeguards, software,
councils, are in place to facilitate meaningful dialogue
training and protocols for uniformity across our
with local communities and raise awareness of
refineries, terminals and import locations to
potential community issues.
reinforce our compliance with applicable fuels
• Assurance & Review – CTEMS is assessed periodically
regulations.
using a disciplined and systematic approach. The
effectiveness of all policies, programs, processes Built on the success of FMS, our Low Carbon
and procedures is reviewed to ensure they are Assurance Program (LCAP) was implemented
appropriate and address the commitment for continual to further delineate and strengthen our
improvement. internal processes. LCAP defines key regulatory
requirements, management expectations
In early 2024, we completed the first round
and internal regulatory assurances relating to
of the refining EERA program by conducting
transportation fuels regulated by low-carbon fuels
environmental excellence and risk assessments
programs. Internal and third-party audits, incident
on all 15 refineries during the last four years.
investigation processes, informal and formal
In addition, progress on the improvement
training programs and consideration of market
opportunities identified by each of these changes are just a few of the expectations laid out
assessments has been monitored by subject in our LCAP. LCAP leadership commits within their
matter experts and members of the respective areas to:
management team.
• Clearly define the responsibilities and
accountabilities of leadership and supporting
2. Environmental Excellence and Risk
staff who are involved with carrying out
Assessment (EERA)
compliance with low-carbon fuels regulations
EERA elevates the environmental audit and compliance and the LCAP.
functions to an environmental excellence vision. Its main goal
• Provide resources to help our facilities and
is to assess the design and effectiveness of environmental
operations fully comply with applicable
performance regarding specific excellence objectives and to
regulations.
facilitate continuous improvement across the company. EERA
• Verify that affected employees receive
defines more than 100 expectations and involves a proprietary
training for their specific job roles.
five-step process (generally summarized below) using due
diligence on data and field assessments reviewed by a • Report, investigate and take corrective action
combination of external and internal subject matter experts. to minimize, mitigate and prevent recurrence
of violations of low-carbon fuels regulations.
• On-Site: Refinery leadership reviews and self-scores
• Execute an internal risk assessment and
against EERA expectations.
assurance program to periodically evaluate
• Digital Documentation: Third-party and in-house
compliance with low-carbon fuels regulations
subject matter experts conduct an extensive deep-dive
and the LCAP and take any necessary
review of refinery environmental data and reports in a
corrective actions.
due diligence-style process.
• Technology: Technical field assessment is conducted Methane emissions are mainly associated
using industry standards and advanced technology to with the extraction and transportation
evaluate effectiveness in controlling emissions. of oil and gas, and smaller methane
• Inspection: Results from the technology review and due emissions may also be emitted from
diligence process are used by a team of experts in a process leaks from valves and connectors
substantive on-site inspection and cultural assessment. as part of the refining process. Although
• Implementation: Final gap assessment report is our refineries use natural gas, methane
produced by experts and leadership team with emissions account for less than 1% of our
mitigation pathway and scoring improvement actions. GHG emissions inventory.
24
Environment
Managing Air Emissions
In addition to the comprehensive air monitoring programs already deployed at our refineries as required by
regulations and/or air permits, we have implemented advanced monitoring systems that go beyond regulations
to identify and reduce air emissions. Ambient air readouts allow refineries to monitor the surrounding communities
and take early response and mitigation actions even on small emissions sources. We have the following air
monitoring programs:
1. GMAP Vans Equipped with Duvas DV3000 6. Routine Optical Gas Imaging (OGI) Inspections of storage
Instruments provide real-time mobile air tanks, wastewater treatment operations and other equipment
monitoring and quality screenings. The vehicle- are performed using OGI cameras equipped with infrared
mounted DV3000 is a monitoring instrument with technology capable of detecting VOC leaks that are not
a gas analyzer that uses ultraviolet spectroscopy visible to the naked eye.
and a meteorological station to identify and
quantify up to 14 different gases, including 7. Unit Battery Limits Monitors placed around the perimeter
benzene, SO2 and NOx, at low part-per-billion of refinery process units continuously measure for target
levels. With an analyzer response time as short as compounds. These stationary air monitors serve as an early
one second, the DV3000 combines measurements warning system if elevated concentrations are detected.
with geographic mapping of gas concentrations,
and enables rapid detection and source location 8. Personal H2S Monitors are required to be worn by refinery
of air emissions during monitoring. personnel while in and around process units, continuously
measuring for H2S, sounding an alarm and recording in the
2. Continuous Emissions Monitoring Systems event elevated H2S is detected.
(CEMS) are placed in the outlet stacks of certain
fired equipment (boilers and heaters) as well as 9. Five-Gas Monitors are routinely used by personnel within
process vents like the Fluid Catalytic Cracking the refinery for measuring H2S, SO2, CO, oxygen and lower
Unit (FCCU). CEMS continuously measure the explosive limit levels for safety purposes and also as early
concentration of compounds, such as NOx and detection to identify and correct issues that could impact
SO2, exiting the stack to confirm operations are ambient air quality.
within permitted limits.
10. Fenceline Benzene Monitors are located around a
3. Continuous Flare Monitoring Systems are number of our refineries at designated intervals to collect
installed on flares to measure the amount of composite samples. Additionally, stationary analyzers
process gases routed to the flare for destruction that detect total VOCs or specific compounds, such as
and track operational parameters to confirm the benzene, are deployed at certain sites in areas at or inside
flare is operating properly. the fenceline to allow for advanced notification of elevated
concentrations.
4. Stack Testing is conducted periodically on
equipment that does not require continuous
GLOBAL REFINING 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
emissions monitoring to confirm it is operating
NOx (MT) 8,700 7,900 8,400 9,200 9,100
properly and within permitted limits.
SOx (MT) 8,800 7,600 7,600 7,800 7,400
PM10 (MT) 2,200 2,200 2,600 2,400 2,200
5. Leak Detection and Repair (LDAR) programs
VOCs (MT) 7,700 7,500 7,500 6,600 7,000
ensure our operating sites comply with the
Fresh water withdrawn (million m3) 164.1 164.6 166.1 182.0* 187.0
EPA's air quality regulations for reducing fugitive
Oil spill events to land (>1 bbl) 14 21 28 23 23
emissions. Inspections are conducted on a routine
Oil spill events to water (>1 bbl) 3 4 0 2 2
basis. Leaks identified are fixed and re-monitored
to confirm repairs were effective. In 2023, we For more information, see SASB report and the notes thereto beginning on page 76.
*Beginning in 2022, fresh water withdrawn includes volume that was withdrawn and
implemented an enhanced LDAR program using sold. Values in prior years include only freshwater used in Valero's operations.
optical gas imaging, resulting in improved leak
identification and cost savings.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report • 25
Renewable Energy and Efficiency
Initiatives
In 2023, roughly 26% of our total refinery energy
consumption originated from renewable sources,
including:
• Hydropower: More than 99% of the electricity used
at our Quebec City refinery comes from renewable
sources – mainly hydropower, with small portions from
wind, biomass, solar and thermal.
• Wind Power: Adjacent to our McKee refinery in the Texas
Panhandle, our wind farm includes 33 wind turbines with
50 megawatts of power generation capacity.
• Cogeneration Plants: Fueled by natural gas, our
cogeneration plants reduce our dependency on local The cogeneration unit at our Wilmington refinery
power grids, which are often costlier. Cogeneration is a reduces our reliance on the local power grid and
increases energy efficiency.
highly efficient and reliable way of producing electricity
and thermal energy or steam with the steam used in
the refining process. Valero has cogeneration systems
at refineries in Wilmington, Benicia, Port Arthur and • Heat Transfer: Our refineries utilize heat integration
Pembroke. technology to improve energy efficiency and reduce
energy-related operating expenses. Heat exchangers
• Expanders: At six of our refineries, we have installed
enable the transfer of thermal energy from high
“expanders” on processing units that generate power
temperature process streams to lower temperature
from exhaust gases. In all, our expanders are designed
streams, decreasing natural gas or refinery fuel gas
with the capacity to annually displace more than
needs for heating and lowering utilities requirements
600,000 tons of carbon dioxide that otherwise would
for cooling.
be generated by conventional power plants.
Waste Management regular waste reviews, risk assessments, waste stream
prioritization and formal personnel training programs.
Valero remains focused on reducing the generation of
Every operating site follows specific expectations on the
wastes across air, water and solid streams. Reducing at
handling and recycling of hazardous wastes as specified
the source and reusing, recycling and repurposing of
in CTEMS.
materials are key components of our waste reduction
program. Spill Prevention: Valero is focused on reducing spills
across our operations to protect our people and the
In 2023, Valero implemented a customized Waste
environment, always with the goal of zero spills. Our
Navigator database across the U.S. refining fleet. The
commitment to reducing environmental scorecard
database tracks waste from generation to ultimate
incidents is a top priority and is strengthened by the
disposition, driving
inclusion of this metric in the all-employee bonus. The
standardized waste 96% of all refinery
environmental scorecard incidents metric is weighted to
management practices and hazardous and
the intensity of incidents, with greater impact for more
systemic improvements in exempted waste was
significant events, including the severity of spills.
waste reduction, reuse and recycled in 2023.
recycling. In addition, the
The Valero Houston Refinery, having only
database allows closer oversight of disposal vendors.
one Environmental Scorecard event in
Hazardous Waste: In 2023, more than 40 million pounds 2023, was awarded the Valero Chairman's
of catalyst were recycled to recover valuable metals.
Environmental Award for the seventh time in
Valero’s hazardous waste management program includes
the 20-year history of this award.
26
Environment
Reducing, Reusing, Recycling and Repurposing
For Valero, being the most efficient and reliable operator in a highly competitive industry means being a better
environmental performer. We look for ways to reduce emissions and waste, reusing energy and byproducts,
recycling materials and repurposing wastes.
• Flare-Gas Recovery Systems Resulted in More • Wastewater Management: Process water and
Than 96% Flaring-Free Operations: Nearly 80% stormwater are managed at our wastewater
of Valero’s large process flares are equipped treatment plants. We use bacteria to digest
with flare-gas recovery systems. These systems oil and treat wastewater streams to clean the
reduce flaring and air pollution, and recover fuel water before returning it to the ecosystem.
gases, which are used to fire heaters and boilers,
• Energy Efficiency Initiatives: We prioritize
reducing natural gas consumption.
improvements in process monitoring and
• Sulfur Removal: Sulfur recovered in control systems to reduce energy consumption,
refining processes is used for a variety of which in turn reduces costs and carbon
beneficial purposes, including crop fertilizer, emissions.
pharmaceuticals, detergents and cosmetics.
• Repurposing of Material Recovered from Tank
Sulfuric acid is also critical for the extraction of
Cleaning: Recovered material is reprocessed in
nickel, cobalt and rare earth minerals from their
our refineries and upgraded to fuels and other
ores.
products or used as fuel at third-party facilities,
• Marine Vapor Recovery Units: At certain refineries, avoiding landfill waste.
captured vapors generated when loading vessels
• Water Recycling: With innovative approaches,
with gasoline and other light products are routed
we use each gallon of water on average more
back to the refinery for reprocessing.
than 16 times prior to evaporation or return to
• Fuel from Oil Waste: Our high-conversion the environment.
refineries are capable of upgrading oil waste into
high-value fuel and products.
Refinery Energy Intensity43
As a result of refinery optimization, started more than 10 years
(Million Btu/bbl throughput) ago, Valero's refinery energy usage per barrel has declined
over time with capital investments, including flare-gas
0.44 recovery and other energy efficiency projects.
0.38
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Environmental, Social and Governance Report • 27
Water Management
Water management is a critical component of our Water risk management is integrated into
business, and we continue to work with stakeholders our operational and long-term planning
to improve our performance, while also reducing to mitigate and reduce water risks.
consumption by:
• Taking a risk-based approach to water management
and integrating water strategy and water security
into our long-term planning and business processes.
• Engaging with local governments, industry
associations, suppliers and regulatory agencies to
develop innovative solutions in water management
and conservation in water-stressed areas.
• Assessing and managing regional water risks
through updated sustainability assessments.
• Ensuring compliance with water management laws
and regulations.
• Reporting on risks posed by water scarcity on each
facility, as applicable.
• Protecting existing water resources through sound
water management policies.
High-efficiency cooling towers are used to
• Recycling and reusing water to improve efficiency.
cool process water for reuse.
Most of our water consumption takes place in our refining
operations. Based on the revised version of the World
Resources Institute’s Water Risk Atlas tool, Aqueduct, we
determined that three of our 15 refineries are located in
regions with high baseline water stress. Reduction and • Our McKee refinery recently commissioned a
mitigation initiatives include the evaluation of reused novel Closed Circuit Reverse Osmosis Treatment
municipal wastewater for cooling tower purposes and technology to treat and reuse brine (water with high
acquisition of secured water rights. Water scarcity can concentration of salt) instead of freshwater in the
be a risk not only to communities but also to the refining cooling tower process, which is expected to replace
operations, as water is needed for cooling, heating and 25 million gallons of water annually from the Ogallala
processing. Aquifer.
• Our Corpus Christi refineries pay into a broad
We have taken several steps to secure our operations in
industry fund that provides water-supply security
conditions of water scarcity.
and supports research and plans for the construction
• At our Wilmington refinery, we are installing facilities
of a desalination facility to serve industrial users.
to use treated municipal wastewater to supplement
• Our Welcome ethanol plant was one of the industry’s
our cooling tower makeup water. Upon project
first operators to achieve “zero discharge” of
completion, we expect to save up to 420 million
wastewater by recovering and recycling process
gallons of potable water per year, equivalent to
water and stormwater.
roughly the annual amount consumed by 3,800 U.S.
households.44 • Process water and stormwater are treated as
necessary before discharging or reusing. Our
• Our Three Rivers refinery recycles treated
wastewater treatment plants are generally
wastewater for use in irrigation for hay production.
comparable to and as effective as those operated by
most cities.
28
Environment
Biodiversity
We engage in diverse ecological projects with local, state and federal regulatory agencies, as well as with
neighbors and nonprofit partners. We work together with local and regional organizations that provide a variety
of environmental services ranging from the protection of endangered species and restoration of wetlands
to reforestation, rehabilitation of former industrial sites and promotion of environmental awareness through
educational training programs.
Biodiversity Impact Assessments
As part of our permitting processes, we comply with local, state and federal regulations related to potential
biodiversity impacts in the planning, approval and implementation phases of certain capital projects.
1. Pre-Construction/Planning Phase – A dedicated 2. Permit/Approval Phase – Valero undergoes
team of environmental experts works closely with a robust permitting process and collaborates
our engineering and commercial departments to with local, state and federal regulatory agencies.
perform environmental due diligence. As part of our Additionally, our corporate subject matter experts
consideration of threats to biodiversity, we often review impact assessments from the pre-
perform environmental field studies to verify and construction and planning phase.
delineate natural resources within proposed project
For major capital projects, a presentation including
areas. For significant greenfield projects where
permitting information, impact avoidance plans,
alternative locations are considered, the most viable
identification of endangered species and other
locations are surveyed. This data further drives project
biodiversity impacts, if applicable, is presented
decisions on avoidance of sensitive features and
at the executive management level. Major capital
habitats and informs site selection.
projects must be approved by the Board before
The following natural and cultural resource advancing to the implementation phase.
considerations are part of the evaluation process:
3. Construction/Implementation Phase – For
• Locations of surface waters and wetlands. site preparation and other related soil-disturbing
• Threatened and endangered species habitats. activities, we initiate stormwater management
• Previously recorded archaeological sites, controls to reduce impacts on lakes, rivers, streams
historic structures and areas of tribal interest or and other surface waters. These controls consist
significance. of a variety of best management practices
• Existing developed areas versus undeveloped integrated into our Stormwater Pollution Prevention
greenfield sites. Plans, which comply with federal, state and
• Public lands, including parks, nature preserves and local stormwater pollution control requirements,
wildlife conservation areas. including planning, temporary and permanent
• Federal Emergency Management Agency sedimentation and erosion control measures,
floodplains. stream- and wetland-crossing procedures,
• Surface water intakes. inspections and general good housekeeping
practices.
During major construction and where warranted,
we also provide training programs on topics
such as threatened and endangered species
awareness and identification, stop-work protocols
and reporting. To protect ecosystems from
unintended releases of materials, we implement
comprehensive pollution prevention and incident
Valero partnered with Ducks Unlimited for the Meraux
response programs.
Terracing Project to enhance marshlands by planting
marsh grasses and trees, and sequestering CO2 near
the Valero Meraux Refinery in Louisiana.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report • 29
2023 Biodiversity and Conservation Initiatives
The following programs and projects are part of our biodiversity initiatives beyond the company's business
activities. We prioritize the needs of local nonprofits and other community stakeholders when selecting biodiversity
projects and value these opportunities to engage with our neighbors.
Nature-Based Carbon Capture Programs:
• Plant giveaway at Corpus Christi Refineries: Since 2022, Valero
has sponsored the annual Earth Day-Bay Day plant giveaway
event where Valero volunteers have distributed a total of
approximately 6,400 native trees and plants to the Coastal
Bend community.
• BCarbon: Valero has supported BCarbon, a nonprofit nature-
based carbon dioxide capture and storage registry, to continue
research and development of BCarbon's living shoreline project
in the Texas Gulf Coast, consisting of oyster reef breakwater
systems. These natural bank barriers help to restore shoreline
habitat, reduce erosion, improve water quality and enhance
fish and wildlife habitat.
Valero volunteers contributed to
• Pontchartrain Conservancy: Valero continued its partnership
the restoration efforts by planting
with the Pontchartrain Conservancy committing $1 million in
native bald cypress, water tupelo,
support of the five-year reforestation project. In 2023, Valero St.
and green ash trees in the LaBranche
Charles employees planted a total of 1,000 trees that consisted
wetlands along Lake Pontchartrain.
of bald cypress, green ash and water tupelo during two
volunteer events. To date, over 52.5 acres have been restored
with over 5,300 trees planted across multiple sites in and
around St. Charles and St. Bernard Parishes.
Valero's commitment to environmental
stewardship was recognized with the
Wildlife Habitat Council's Conservation
Certification for the marsh reforestation
project in a partnership with the
Pontchartrain Conservancy.
• Tree Planting at Valero Montreal East Terminal: In
collaboration with the Société de Verdissement du Montréal
Métropolitain, an organization that develops green space
strategies in urban environments, Valero volunteers planted
Valero volunteers planted native
approximately 750 trees, including more than 20 species
and resilient tree species to
of native trees and shrubs well-suited to thrive in urban
promote urban greening at Valero's
Montreal East terminal site in Canada. conditions. Soil characterization was performed to ensure
quality and structure to create a resilient dense forest that can
stand up to the stress of an urban environment for generations
to come.
3300
Environment
Wildlife Protection Programs:
• Nature Boardwalk (Pwllcrochan Environmental Centre):
Valero Pembroke Refinery in the U.K. has partnered with
Pwllcrochan Environmental Centre for over 20 years to
support their nature boardwalk educational program.
In 2023, over 900 students visited the site where Valero
volunteers support educators during teaching sessions to
help students learn about the wildlife and habitats around
the site.
• Biodiversity Action Plan: Our Pembroke refinery
implemented a Biodiversity Action Plan through which it
creates and sustains habitat for wildlife on 500 acres it
owns outside its fenceline. This includes initiatives such as
the preservation of grass and wildflowers for pollinators,
including bumblebees and butterflies, as well as bird Digital microscopes were used enabling
students to have a closer look at the aquatic
rehabilitation and protection efforts. The work has focused on
animals at the Pwllcrochan Environmental
kestrel birds, an "Amber-listed" bird species of conservation
Centre in Pembroke, U.K.
concern in the U.K., which has resulted in successful kestrel
breeding nests during the last 20 years at the refinery
grounds.
• Iowa Department of Natural Resources: The Valero Albert
City Ethanol Plant is allowing the Iowa Department of Natural
Resources (DNR) access to the site’s stormwater pond to
band goslings. In 2022 and 2023, over 100 goslings were
banded, which will help the DNR track the population and
observe their migration and travel patterns.
Water-Focused Programs:
• Gulf of Mexico Alliance: The Valero Port Arthur Refinery
became a 2022 Gulf Star Partner with the Gulf of Mexico
Alliance by supporting its Ocean Guardian School Program
in collaboration with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration. This five-year program supports a
Students are learning how to be responsible
teacher leader at Lincoln Middle School in the Port Arthur
and conscientious stewards of our
Independent School District to execute conservational
waterways through Valero's support of the
projects with students throughout the school year. In 2023,
Ocean Guardian School Program at Lincoln
students learned about the importance of watersheds, the
Middle School in Port Arthur.
"6 Rs" that include Rethink/Reuse/Reduce/Reuse/Rot/Recycle,
impacts of marine debris and the steps they can take to
reduce trash that enters waterways.
EEnnvviirroonnmmeennttaall,, SSoocciiaall aanndd GGoovveerrnnaannccee RReeppoorrtt •• 3311
Safety
Safety is our foundation for success.
Process safety and
operations employees
at the Valero St. Charles
Refinery
At Valero, we believe that safety and reliability are environmental incidents and stronger community
extremely important, not only for the protection of our relations. We strive to improve safety and reliability
employees and communities, and the cultural values performance by offering year-round safety training
we aspire to as a company, but also for operational programs for our employees and contractors, and
success, as a decrease in the number of employee by seeking to promote the same expectations and
and process safety events should generally reduce culture of safety. We also seek to enhance our safety
unplanned shutdowns and increase the operational performance by conducting safety audits, quality
reliability of our refineries and plants. This, in turn, assurance visits, and comprehensive safety and risk
should also translate into a safer workplace with fewer assessments at our facilities.
32
Safety
Safety Initiatives Recently Implemented
Valero Safety Excellence Program (VSEP) - This tool aligns field
audits with our proprietary Valero Safety Assessment for Excellence
assessments to help support and drive continuous improvement at Valero McKee Refinery
our facilities. The revised “peer observation tool,” within VSEP, builds
upon the principles of a traditional behavior-based safety program. It
emphasizes hazard identification and mitigates risk by encouraging
personalized and meaningful conversations between employees and
contractors.
Electronic Energy Isolation List (eEIL) - Protecting personnel from
hazardous energy during maintenance activities is one of the most
critical tasks routinely performed at our facilities, and tolerance for
error is zero. Valero is in the last stages to complete the rollout of
an eEIL system designed to increase efficiency and ensure better
protection of our employees and contractors when performing
equipment maintenance.
Contractor Selection and Prescreening Criteria -
We have enhanced the contractor evaluation and prescreening
criteria to encourage continuous improvement and selection of best-
in-class contractors. All business partners are expected to participate Majority of refineries designated
in our supplier management system, which begins with an initial as VPP Star Sites by OSHA,45
screening and includes ongoing monitoring of risks related to health, recognizing exemplary
safety, environmental and quality performance, as well as supplier occupational safety, process
safety and health programs.
selection, employee training and qualifications, insurance coverage,
and financial strength and stability. The supplier management system
also assesses contractor and supplier risk management policies and
practices covering a wide variety of topics.
Safety Management Systems
Through the various disciplines within Occupational Safety and Health, we provide one of the most fundamental
ways of caring for our employees, contractors and neighboring communities. Safety plays an important role in
many of the major elements of CTEMS. Examples of safety programs and initiatives under CTEMS include, but are
not limited to, the following:
Protecting People & Environment • Quality assurance programs to ensure materials
• Compliance with all relevant health, safety, and meet designated specifications.
environmental laws and regulations. • Processes to prevent repeat failures.
• Occupational health program, including industrial • Employee participation programs to maintain a
hygiene monitoring, medical surveillance programs, positive and open safety culture.
fatigue prevention and other human factor
People & Skills Development
programs.
• Employees receiving appropriate training
• Processes to identify, communicate and safely
throughout their employment.
handle chemicals, hazardous materials and wastes.
• Processes to review and update training programs.
• Ensuring all sites prepare for and respond to all
Technical Excellence & Knowledge
levels of operational emergencies.
• Incident and significant near-miss reporting and
Safe, Stable & Reliable Operations
investigation processes to ensure timely sharing of
• Operating, maintenance, safe work and inspection
information and closure of corrective actions.
programs are in place, rigorously followed, verified
and updated.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report • 33
2023 Safety Awards American Fuel and Petrochemical Manufacturers
(AFPM) Safety Awards
Valero Chairman’s Awards
The AFPM Annual Safety Awards are the industry’s premier safety
Valero McKee Refinery - The Valero awards. The Elite Platinum Safety Award recognizes sites that have
Chairman's Safety Award is granted demonstrated superior program innovation and leadership over time;
to the site with the most outstanding the Elite Gold Award recognizes facilities with safety performances in
personnel and process safety the top 5 percentile; and the Elite Silver Award recognizes the top 10
performance. Notable achievements percentile of industry safety.
by the Valero McKee Refinery • One 2023 Elite Platinum Award – Awarded to the Valero Three
include zero recordable employee Rivers Refinery.
or contractor injuries in 2023, zero • Two 2023 Elite Gold Awards - Awarded to the Valero Houston and
employee injuries in three years, zero McKee Refineries.
contractor injuries in five years, zero • One 2023 Elite Silver Award – Awarded to the Valero Wilmington
Tier 1 Process Safety events in 2023 Asphalt Plant.
and VPP Star site since 2019.
Innovation Award (Occupational Safety) recognizes companies that
have developed and implemented new and innovative ways to identify
Valero Charles City Ethanol Plant -
and manage operating risks. Since the award's inception in 2020, Valero
The Chairman's Award for Excellence
has received eight of the 23 total innovation awards given.
in Renewables was awarded for no
employee or contractor recordable • Two 2023 Innovation Awards – Awarded to the Valero McKee and
injuries in nearly four years, no Tier 1 Three Rivers Refineries.
Process Safety Events in more than Safety Achievement Award
10 years and no scorecard reliability
• Five 2023 Safety Achievement Awards - Awarded to the Valero
events in 2023. Following this plant’s
Houston, McKee, Memphis and Three Rivers Refineries, and the
turnaround in 2024, the Valero Charles
Valero Wilmington Asphalt Plant.
City Ethanol Plant is projected to reach
record run rates that are 60% higher
than the original design.
U.S. Department of Labor Occupational Safety and
Valero Houston Refinery - The Valero Health Administration's (OSHA) Voluntary Protection
Chairman's Refinery Reliability Award Program (VPP)
is determined primarily by the number
Our participation in OSHA's Voluntary Protection Program exemplifies
of downtime events, both stewardable
our consistent pursuit of going beyond regulatory requirements by
and non-stewardable, and the
voluntarily submitting to robust safety audits. OSHA approves VPP
percentage of refinery unit downtime,
Star Site status only if the facility demonstrates that enhanced safety
both annualized turnaround
systems have been implemented and embraced in a collaborative way
downtime and downtime outside of
by leaders and employees. Sites are reassessed by OSHA every three to
turnarounds. In 2023, for the sixth time
five years in order to maintain their VPP status.
in the award’s 18-year history, the
• VPP Star Site status at nine refineries: Ardmore, Corpus Christi
winner of this award was the Valero
(East and West), Houston, McKee, Memphis, St. Charles, Texas City
Houston Refinery. This refinery had
and Three Rivers Refineries.
no stewardable unit outages for two
• Other facilities with VPP Star Site status: Corpus Christi Asphalt
years straight and tied for best “time
Plant, Houston Asphalt Plant, St. James Terminal, Valero Aviation
on tools" performance within our
Department and the St. Charles renewable diesel plant.
refining segment. Additionally, the site
• Valero's international refineries, Pembroke and Quebec, have
had no Tier 1 Process Safety Events, received VPP's equivalent assessment and approval.
led the segment in non-turnaround
In 2023, the Valero Wilmington Asphalt Plant entered into a cooperative
downtime and had the least
program with Cal/OSHA46 called Cal/Reach that is designed to assist the
amount of unit downtime, outside of
site in becoming a VPP Star Site.
turnarounds over the last two years.
34
Safety
Goal Zero Safety Program
Our Goal Zero program is designed to
eliminate incidents and injuries in six
Personnel Hand Awareness
focus areas by taking a data-driven risk- Exposure and Safety
based approach. The program utilizes
comprehensive incident reporting data
Energy Isolation Slips, Trips and
and evaluates each incident against the and Control Falls
AFPM Personal Safety Incident Matrix,
tailored for the refining industry. This
matrix classifies incidents according Heavy Equipment/ Dropped
Vehicle Operations Objects
to their potential outcomes, injury
type/consequence and activity/cause
contributing factors. Each of our Valero
sites establishes goals and objectives
Heavy Equipment/ Energy Isolation and
aligned with each of the Goal Zero’s six Vehicle Operations Control
focus areas and provides monthly reports.
• 360 Walk-Arounds/Circle • LOTO and Blinding.
for Safety. • Energy Isolation Lists.
• Refinery Vehicle • Bleeder Management.
Management. • Zero Energy Verification.
• Management/Incident • Equipment Clearing to
Accountability Meetings. Return to Service.
• Training Qualification
Verification.
Hand Awareness and
Personnel Exposure
Safety
• Impact/Cut-Resistant • Reducing Health Hazards
Gloves. such as:
Valero Albert City Ethanol Plant
• Enhanced Job Hazard • H 2S.
Analysis (JHA), Permitting • Chemical Contact.
and Assessment Tools. • Heat Exposure.
• Pre-Job Hand Hazard • Inhalation Hazards.
Valero’s Safety Evaluation. • Low Oxygen.
• Assessments and
Assessment for Excellence
Inspection for Hand Power
(VSAFE) Tools.
VSAFE re-engineers the traditional health
and safety audit and compliance model Slips, Trips and Falls Dropped Objects
to focus on driving health and safety
excellence. VSAFE assesses the design • Focused Worksite • Maintenance Planning for
Assessments. Elevated Work.
and effectiveness of safety performance
• Mechanical Integrity • Tool Tethering.
in more than 120 expectations that are
Inspections (walking- • Barricades/Mesh/
key to driving culture and continuous working surfaces). Canopies.
improvement. Using a proprietary process • SRLs (Self-Retracting • Lifting Equipment
Lanyards). Upgrades.
with site data, field assessments, and
• Area Housekeeping • Enhanced JHA, Permitting
employee/management interviews,
Accountability. and Assessment Tools.
subject matter experts work alongside site
champions at each refinery to perform
this assessment every three years.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report • 35
Life-Saving Rules
In order to ensure full compliance with our safety
policies and procedures, Valero implemented Life-
Saving Rules – seven, long-standing critical rules
that must be followed at all times. Any violation
of a Life-Saving Rule will result in the most serious
levels of discipline. By undergoing comprehensive
training, realistic field exercises and adhering to
these critical rules in day-to-day operations, our
employees and contractors make Valero a place
where we can all feel proud and safe coming to
work every day.
Employee Safety Training
Safety training ensures that our employees are provided the knowledge, skills
and abilities required to execute their jobs to the highest standard. As stated in
our CTEMS expectations, all employees receive appropriate training throughout
their employment. This includes training in emergency preparedness, process safety, the seven Life-Saving Rules,
and on all processes and equipment changes affecting their job assignments, as well as cybersecurity risks. Training
programs include computer-based sessions, instructor-led courses, frequent safety meetings and daily safety talks.
We also have internal processes in place through which we continue to review and update our training programs.
Personnel Safety Performance
(Recordable injuries per 200,000 working hours)
Valero employees
and contractors
Refining industry47
0.62
36
etaR
tnedicnI
elbadroceR
latoT
)RIRT(
Valero Fort Dodge Ethanol Plant Valero Memphis Refinery
1 Work with a valid work permit when required.
2 Verify energy isolation before beginning work.
3 Obtain authorization before entering a confined space.
Obtain authorization before overriding or bypassing a
4
safety system.
5 Use specified life protection equipment.
6 Protect yourself against a fall when working at heights.
7 Smoke in designated smoking areas only.
In 2023, our refinery employees
completed more than 673,000
hours in safety training programs.
1.10
0.60
0.31
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Safety
Contractor Safety Training
In the last two years, nearly half
As safety is a top priority, the contractors we hire are required to
of our 12 ethanol plants have
uphold the strong safety culture of Valero in their everyday work.
gone without an employee
In 2023, our contractors completed more than 870,000 safety
recordable injury and no Tier 1
training hours. In addition, contractors working at Valero refineries
Process Safety Events (PSE).
have been awarded a total of 26 OSHA VPP Stars.
All contractors are prescreened by a third party to ensure they meet or exceed Valero’s health and safety
expectations. Contractors are also trained initially and annually through a reciprocal contractor safety council
focused on site-specific health and safety requirements. As a part of our CTEMS expectations, we have a
program in place to ensure contractor alignment with Valero's safety, health, environmental and reliability
expectations. This includes:
• Clear accountabilities and requirements for safety and contract performance.
• Requirements for contractors to have in place controls ensuring procured materials and services are
verified and qualified as contracted.
Valero Leads the Transition to Non-Fluorinated Fire Suppression Foams
During the last five years, Valero has worked diligently on its commitment to set new industry standards
with the elimination of PFAS-containing AFFFs48 in fire suppression solutions in favor of non-fluorinated
alternatives. This decision came after extensive testing of alternative fire suppression solutions while
still meeting the stringent performance requirements for firefighting in highly flammable environments.
This transition has also been enhanced with comprehensive training programs in emergency response
protocols.
Safety Performance Metrics
Valero Refineries vs. Other Sectors47 Global Refining
(Recordable injuries per 200,000 working hours) (Recordable injuries per 200,000 working hours)
Valero Refinery Combined 0.3 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Employees and Contractors
Personnel Safety
0.25 0.35 0.21 0.32 0.40
Employee (TRIR)
Petroleum Refineries 0.6
Personnel Safety
0.39 0.15 0.27 0.15 0.24
Finance, Insurance and Contractor (TRIR)
0.8
Real Estate
Fatality Rate
0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Employee
Electric Power Generation 1.0
Fatality Rate
0.00 0.00 0.01 0.00 0.00
Contractor
Manufacturing 3.2
Process Safety
0.05 0.06 0.05 0.08 0.05
Education and Health Event Rate - Tier 149
4.2
Services
Process Safety
0.17 0.17 0.16 0.18 0.20
State and Local Event Rate - Tier 249
4.9
Governments
Hospitals 6.1
Framing Contractors 7.1
Environmental, Social and Governance Report • 37
Process Safety and Reliability
Our process safety and reliability programs proactively impactful areas. Below is a list of some of the most
contribute to our goal of operational excellence. mature technical assessments and focus areas:
These programs provide safeguards for certifying
• MAIN – Inspection and mechanical integrity.
our equipment is correctly designed, regularly
• ESARN – Electrical systems.
maintained and safely operated. Valero employs
• ROTO – Rotating equipment.
an industry-leading technical process safety and
• PACE – Process automation and controls
reliability assessment program to drive first-quartile
effectiveness.
reliability performance and help maintain the safety
• CYBER – Cybersecurity.
of our employees and communities. We continue to
• AOE – Alkylation operations excellence.
evaluate and utilize state-of-the-art process control
• ORA – Operational reliability.
and equipment monitoring technology to optimize
These assessments leverage the expertise of
operations efficiency.
our technical subject matter experts who work
Through CTEMS, we have mature processes in place to alongside site champions to evaluate the design and
analyze PSEs. Understanding the reasons for a PSE is the effectiveness of each site’s specific reliability programs.
first step. We then take necessary actions to prevent The results identify areas of opportunity, which
repeat failures, address unreliable equipment or are prioritized to help each site achieve our overall
improve specific program expectations to ensure safe operational excellence goals. Many of our more mature
and reliable operations. assessments were updated in 2023 to account for
progress driven through our CTEMS annual focus areas
Valero began developing a suite of technical
and site-specific improvement plans. These updated
assessments over 10 years ago to inform the annual
assessments will allow priorities and resources to shift to
strategic resource planning process and ensure
remaining opportunities and new emerging issues.
continuous improvements are made in the most
Mechanical Availability
Our high mechanical availability rate is a result of our highly reliable refinery operations and is
underpinned by our CTEMS expectations of: 2023
• Avoiding unplanned downtime. • Minimizing environmental impacts.
BEST YEAR EVER FOR
• Implementing our structured turnaround • Ensuring efficient use of resources. MECHANICAL
planning process. AVAILABILITY
In addition to our capital investments in reliability, our comprehensive reliability assessments,
proprietary management systems and internal strategic planning process are essential in the
reduction of environmental incidents and improving safety.
In 2023, we achieved 97.4% refining mechanical availability
making it a new best-ever performance.
97.4%
97.5%
97.0%
96.5%
96.0%
95.5%
95.0%
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
38
Safety
PSE Tier 1 Rate, Five-Year Average50
Process Safety
(per 200,000 working hours)
Initiatives
0.12 Implemented in
2023:
0.10
Improved Operational Risk
0.08 Management Programs – We
developed and implemented
0.059
0.06 new risk assessment standards
and tools designed to improve
0.04
the consistency and efficiency
of existing programs. New
0.02
electronic systems were
introduced that leverage
0.00
technology to provide more
2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
immediate operating data and
system information for analysis,
In 2023, Valero set multiple process safety performance records:
trending and corrective
• The Five-Year Average PSE Tier 1 rate of 0.059 is our best-
actions.
ever performance.
Enhanced Incident
• Eight PSE Tier 1's is a record low and our best year ever. Investigations – Performing
quality incident investigations
• 2023 PSE Tier 1's is nearly half of 2022 PSE Tier 1's.
has been a priority for many
• The Annual 2023 PSE Tier 1 rate equaled our best years ever years. This has resulted in
recorded in 2019 and 2021. a very strong process that
ensures quality corrective
• A record nine refineries ended the year having recorded
actions to prevent a
Zero PSE Tier 1's in 2023. In addition, two refineries have
recurrence. In 2023, Valero
achieved four straight years with no PSE Tier 1's. This is a
issued new tools and training
significant achievement and is recognized as industry-
focused on the identification
leading process safety performance.
of human and organizational
performance opportunities for
improvement.
PSE Tier 1 Count PSE Tier 1 Annual Rate
Shared Learning – To leverage
20 0.10 the benefits of our enhanced
0.08 incident investigation process,
15 0.08
15 Valero continues to introduce
new and innovative ways
0.06
0.05
to effectively share incident
10
8
investigation learnings
0.04
more broadly using various
5
0.02 multimedia tools, including
webcasts and animated
0 0.00 videos.
2022 2023 2022 2023
Environmental, Social and Governance Report • 39
Managing Physical Risks
With refineries along coastlines and ethanol plants in the U.S. Midwest, Valero has long evaluated and prepared for
physical risks to its facilities from natural disasters and weather events, including hurricanes, tornadoes and other
threats. Our emergency preparedness and response programs are focused on the mitigation of these risks.
Enhancing Physical Resilience
In the last 10 years, Valero has invested
more than $14 billion of capital to sustain its
operations, including turnarounds, catalysts,
investments in safety, preventive equipment
maintenance, environmental mitigation, and
reliability and regulatory compliance. Sustaining
capital is used to keep our facilities performing
and to mitigate and reduce physical risks to our
operations and our people, including:
• New infrastructure at raised elevations to
reduce the effects of flooding.
• Upgraded critical buildings, including control
rooms and employee shelters resilient to
physical risks.
• Refineries designed to withstand hurricane
Emergency response team at Valero St. Charles Refinery
forces, with safe shutdowns and non-
demonstrates Valero's strong relationships with local
essential personnel evacuations initiated in
response personnel.
advance of major hurricanes.
Hurricane Preparedness
Valero’s U.S. Gulf Coast facilities are periodically exposed to hurricanes and other severe weather events, including
strong winds, storm surges and flooding. While our refineries are engineered to withstand these weather impacts,
our management and refinery leadership teams use a sophisticated hurricane-specific preparedness program
to protect our people and assets. This includes pre-hurricane season activities, as well as a five-phase process
to monitor evolving conditions as the storm approaches, allowing for adequate time and resources for our
employees and facilities to safely prepare.
PHASE 1 At the start of hurricane season with facility plans reviewed and updated, verify supplies and
begin daily monitoring.
2
PHASE Assess predicted storm path and potential for impact.
3 Determine site(s) that are likely to be significantly impacted, and activate the Corporate
PHASE
Emergency Operations Center, operating plan and contingencies, call center and equipment
and service providers.
4
PHASE Execute shutdown, ride-out and/or evacuation plans.
5 Initiate post-hurricane response, including the assessment of impacts on employees, the
PHASE
environment, surrounding communities and plant operations and implementation of plans for
recovery, support and safe startup of operations.
40
Safety
Valero Corpus Christi Refineries host large-scale, multi-
agency drill
Emergency Management Planning
Our emergency management planning
includes:
• Emergency response plans at each
facility that comply with all local, state
and federal regulations and are regularly
updated with third-party assessments to
ensure excellence.
• Certifying equipment and facilities are
maintained in fully functional condition
As part of Valero’s ongoing efforts to improve emergency
and are readily available along with
response, the Valero Corpus Christi Refineries hosted more
trained personnel when needed for
than 100 participants from 15 outside organizations in a two-
emergency response.
day training event to strengthen collaboration and response in
• Ensuring qualified emergency response
case of emergencies.
teams with strong relationships with third-
party response personnel are present “Conducting well-executed training exercises is imperative
on-site. to build resilience and to validate our preparedness
• Performing regular drills and assessments investments. While training alongside your response partners
to promote response readiness and and regulators can be challenging, doing so demonstrates
alignment with our Goal Zero program. your commitment to the community and builds trusted
• Allocating capital resources to emergency relationships that will prove critical to our success during a
planning and response in the strategic crisis,” said Danielle Hale, Director of Emergency Management,
planning and capital budget processes to Port Corpus Christi. “We are proud of the team at Valero
make our facilities efficient and resilient. Corpus Christi Refineries and look forward to additional
• Employing the use of emerging collaborative training opportunities in the future.”
technologies to optimize decision-making
and response execution.
Valero invested in 13 quick-attack vehicles for its
Valero’s Emergency Response
domestic sites to bolster its emergency response
Team (ERT)
capabilities.
Training plays an important part in developing
These vehicles are strategically equipped to
and maintaining the skills required to respond
deliver a rapid and efficient response to potential
effectively to emergency situations. Valero
emergencies, further enhancing Valero's operations
is committed to providing each member of
safety protocols and readiness. This investment
the ERT the opportunity to attend training
reflects Valero's proactive approach to emergency
necessary for developing and maintaining
preparedness and its commitment to adopting
the skills and knowledge required to be an
solutions for environmental protection and safety.
ERT member. During training, ERT members
prepare for a variety of scenarios, expand
their skills, share information from experience
and mentor new members. At each site,
the ERT maintains strong relationships with
local community response personnel by
participating in joint drills and assessments.
Quick-attack vehicle deployed to the Valero Meraux
Frequent ERT training exercises promote
Refinery
excellent response readiness.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report • 41
Community
We will be a good neighbor by sharing our success with the communities
where we live and work, through volunteerism, charitable giving and the
economic support of being a good employer.
Valero has a long-standing history of engaging More than 300 Valero volunteers participated in
with fenceline communities. We look for the 2023 United Way Day of Caring, helping to
opportunities to collaborate with neighbors, renovate the 80-acre campus at Boysville Children’s
local officials, regulators and community Home and Shelter, in San Antonio, which provides a safe
leaders to build stronger communities. We environment for over 300 children affected by abuse,
work diligently to engage with stakeholders neglect and family crisis. Valero volunteers assembled
at all levels to understand local interests and and installed new beds and cribs, painted outdoor and
needs, and address social, environmental
indoor cottages, landscaped, and cleaned kitchens
and economic matters through meaningful
and bathrooms throughout campus. Through the years,
involvement.
Valero has invested nearly $2 million in Boysville.
42
Community
Protecting and Building Strong
2023 Community
Communities
Highlights
Public awareness and interest in environmental justice (EJ) has
grown along with the current administration's prioritization of
In 2023, Valero and the Valero
EJ in policymaking. The EPA defines EJ as the fair treatment and
Energy Foundation generated more
meaningful involvement of all people regardless of race, color,
than $77.6 million for charities
national origin or income, with respect to the development,
through employee and company
implementation and enforcement of environmental laws,
donations, corporate philanthropy,
regulations and policies. In 2022, the EPA released guidance and
fundraising and volunteerism. This
principles to include EJ factors in air permitting applications.
represents an increase of more
than 14%, compared with last year,
In 2023, we published the Environmental Justice Audit
and more than 39% compared with
Report, conducted by an independent third-party
five years ago.
consultant with expertise in social/environmental justice
and community assessments. This expert concluded
$77.6 MILLION+
that Valero’s commitment to environmental protection,
total generated for charities,
community engagement and involvement, and
including:
community investment goes beyond compliance and
aligns with the pillars of environmental justice.51
$4.5 MILLION
global employee giving and
In 2009, Valero formally adopted an Environmental Justice Policy
employee volunteerism
Statement, becoming the first major energy company to do
so. Our efforts to collaborate with stakeholders and address $25.9 MILLION
social, economic and environmental concerns are part of being corporate investments in the
a good neighbor. We partner with and support organizations U.S., U.K., Canada, Mexico and
working to improve healthcare access, food security, affordable
Peru
housing and other basic needs, and education and workforce
development, all of which are priorities for our communities. $19.6 MILLION
support for United Way
agencies (U.S., Mexico and Peru)
Valero’s Environmental Justice $27.6 MILLION
Policy Statement (adopted in 2009) Valero Energy Foundation
investments (including
Valero strives to operate as a good neighbor and
net proceeds from major
looks for opportunities to work with local officials
fundraising events such as the
and directly with fence-line neighbors to improve
Valero Texas Open & Valero
the quality of life for its neighbors and communities.
Valero aims to treat its fence-line neighbors fairly, Benefit for Children)
regardless of race, color, national origin, culture
or income. We work to ensure our neighbors 129,400+
have an opportunity to understand our proposed Valero employee volunteer hours
activities and to provide them with meaningful globally
opportunity to have their concerns heard, with the
goal of providing them with greater comfort of our
operations.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report • 43
Connecting with Stakeholders
To understand local interests and priorities, we proactively engage with all stakeholders, including:
Neighbors - We work to ensure our neighbors understand our proposed activities, and we strive to provide them
with opportunities to have their concerns heard. Outreach efforts are designed around community needs and
preferences and may include a combination of hotlines, newsletters, direct mailings, electronic notifications,
websites and participation in community advisory councils (CACs) or community advisory panels (CAPs).
Comprised of fenceline residents
and businesses, nonprofit
organizations and government
representatives, CACs/CAPs have
traditionally been a primary
mechanism for Valero to engage
with local communities. We work
closely with the members of our
CACs/CAPs, meeting regularly,
In Wilmington, California, the CAP and Valero volunteers
and sometimes partnering on
cook a monthly meal for families staying at the Ronald
volunteer activities. McDonald House.
Regulatory Agencies and Government Officials - Federal, state and local regulatory agencies provide
environmental stewardship through the development and enforcement of regulations. Engagements with
regulators are mutually beneficial, serving as opportunities for Valero to provide business and operations
updates and for agencies to discuss regulatory matters. We also work closely with government officials to
ensure alignment of our business with public policies. Both regulators and government officials are invited to
our refineries and plants as part of our proactive engagement efforts.
Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) - We regularly meet with representatives from NGOs in local
communities to answer their questions, as well as look for ways we can partner on projects for the betterment of
the community.
Indigenous Tribes - We worked with Indigenous tribes to preserve sites with
biodiverse, historical, cultural and spiritual significance on infrastructure
projects. We also work in partnership to address community issues. For
example, Valero partnered with the Chickasaw Nation and the Ardmore,
Oklahoma, YMCA to promote health and well-being through scholarships for
youth sports such as flag football, basketball and baseball. In 2023, 11,000 kids
were enrolled in youth sports.
Industry and Business Partners - We collaborate with industry and business partners to promote mutual
success by embracing the highest standards of responsible operations, including ethical business practices
and compliance with all laws and regulations, health, safety, environment, human rights, labor and governance.
44
Community
Feedback from Our Neighbors
Community Interviews:
More than 600 random surveys of community members and
positive feedback from
multiple interviews with stakeholders conducted as part of the
organizations advancing
independent Environmental Justice Audit Report revealed that
EJ concerns to regulators,
our neighbors held positive views of Valero.
local officials and nonprofits
- Montrose Environmental
Community Surveys: a favorable impression of Valero - In
conducted in-depth interviews
October 2022, Valero voluntarily engaged a third-party polling
with stakeholders, including
company to conduct more than 600 random surveys in
regulators, local officials,
certain Valero neighboring communities.
community organizers and
An overwhelming majority of residents surveyed recognized nonprofit representatives to
the importance of oil and gas companies to the local collect their feedback.
economy, and a majority of residents had a favorable
“Valero has a positive impact
impression of Valero as a company. Additionally, a majority of
on the community and
residents did not believe that environmental racism was an
generationally; Valero is a true
issue in their community. However, a majority of respondents
partner.”
were at least somewhat concerned about environmental
- Melissa Perrier, Manager,
issues in their local area. This contrast suggests that while
Campaign & Marketing, United
race-related EJ concerns are limited, a general concern over
Way St. Charles
the level of pollutants in air and water exists.
“Valero is committed to making
a better community for all to
work and live in. We can’t have
a healthy community unless it is
resilient. A resilient community
starts with a resilient economy.”
- Jesse Gilbert, President & CEO,
Texas State Aquarium
“Our local Valero has developed
a culture of giving that is unlike
any other organization that I
have ever seen. Valero supports
and encourages employee
volunteerism. Management
welcomes ideas on how best to
impact the community. It’s truly
an organization that believes
Valero’s Houston Refinery joins Houston Mayor John that you have to invest in the
Whitmire and other representatives to celebrate “East community and they empower
their employees to do it.”
End Day at City Hall” hosted by the East End Chamber of
Commerce. - Janie Johnson, President & CEO,
United Way Port Arthur/Mid and
Valero is a founding member of this organization,
South Jefferson County
serving residents and businesses in Houston’s East End
area, near the refinery.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report • 45
The Impact of Our Investments52
HEALTH AND WELLNESS
American Diabetes
$14.2 MILLION TOTAL FUNDS DONATED IN 2023 Association
Valero has partnered with numerous healthcare initiatives Valero supports the Project
in its communities to provide access to programs, clinical Power for Youth initiative in
screenings, new state-of-the-art medical equipment and Houston, San Antonio and
other resources that help promote health and well-being. Texas City, to help slow the
The following are some examples of recent efforts. trajectory of childhood obesity
and prevent Type 2 diabetes
through nutrition education,
Memphis, Tennessee - Valero invested $49,000 in Regional One increased physical activity and
Health's oncology program. The program aims to establish the family involvement for more
city's premier academic comprehensive cancer center by offering than 350 at-risk children.
world-class cancer care close to home to more than 7,000
patients annually.
Houston, Texas - Launched
in 2020, the Communities in
Schools of Houston program Wellness
on Wheels came to life to take care of
students' physical and mental health
through cycling at Milby High School.
Valero, a founding donor, has invested
$75,000 in the program and has
contributed with bicycles, helmets and
Communities in Schools of Houston, Wellness on Wheels program
safety gear for the students.
Three Rivers, Texas - Valero Wilmington, California - Valero contributed $25,000 to the Wilmington
provided a $250,000 gift to Community Clinic for pediatric equipment. In 2023, the clinic treated more
help with the construction of than 3,000 children.
a new state-of-the-art Live
Oak Community Health Center
located in Three Rivers, Texas. Port Arthur, Texas - Serving 7,000 patients a year, the Gulf Coast Health
The new 6,750-square-foot Center received $100,000 from Valero to defray patient financial costs and
medical clinic opened in the to fund overall medical treatment.
summer of 2024 and offers a
part-time physician, two family
Dumas, Texas - Valero partnered with the Moore County Health
nurse practitioners, a medical
Foundation and provided $75,000 for a new 3D mammogram system,
assistant, a behavioral health
which will help increase accuracy for diagnosing and detecting breast
provider and other support staff.
cancer.
46
Community
EDUCATION AND WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT
Boys and Girls Clubs
of America
$16.5 MILLION TOTAL FUNDS DONATED IN 2023
Recognizing that educational opportunities are a path For many young people, the Boys
to success, Valero has partnered with several agencies and Girls Club is a safe place for
committed to ensuring that children and adults have the after-school or summer mentorship
knowledge, skills, training and resources to help them thrive. programs. Activities include
The following are some examples of recent efforts. academics, athletics, health and
wellness, character leadership and
workforce readiness. Since 2007,
Valero has invested more than
Hartley, Iowa - Valero Memphis, Tennessee - The
$9 million in local Boys and Girls
contributed $100,000 to Valero Hope Works Program at
Club affiliates across fenceline
Iowa State University for the Palmer Home for Children
communities in the U.S., including
a new educational center gives young people the
Amarillo, Corpus Christi, Houston,
providing courses on youth necessary work and life skills
Port Arthur, San Antonio, Texas City
development, agriculture, to prepare for adulthood. In
and Three Rivers, Texas; Ardmore,
human sciences, and 2023, more than 280 young
Oklahoma; Aurora, South Dakota;
community and economic people were involved in the
Benicia and Wilmington, California;
development. program.
Bluffton and Linden, Indiana; Memphis,
Vital to the area's
Tennessee; and Meraux, Louisiana.
economic growth, the San Antonio, Texas - Valero
agricultural programs donated $500,000 to the
include farm management, YWCA Women’s Live and Learn Linden, Indiana - Since 2011, Valero’s
crop and soil resources, Center, where women, some Linden Ethanol Plant has contributed
natural resource with children, are provided with more than $110,000 to the Boys and
management, livestock, long-term housing and must Girls Club of Montgomery County. In
women in agriculture, commit to job-training or a 2023, Valero provided the funds to
annual pesticide training degree program to help break bring national programs such as Triple
and many more. the cycle of poverty and better Play, Money Matters and DIY STEM to
prepare them for the workforce. 70 after-school students per day.
Texas City, Texas - St. Charles Parish, Louisiana
Valero contributed - In 2021, Valero provided
$187,000 to the College $1 million to River Parishes
of the Mainland for a Community College (RPCC) for
glass distillation unit a new college campus to focus
in the new Industrial on education and workforce
Careers building. The training for local residents
unit offers hands- interested in pursuing careers
on experience to in PTECH or instrumentation. In
train more than 600 2023, Valero contributed $110,000
process technology for a new advanced process
(PTECH) students in the control training system and
First PTECH graduating class of 2024 from
operation of this type mobile lab to provide invaluable RPCC St. Charles Campus
of machinery for future hands-on training in measuring
careers in refining. and controlling process
variables for students.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report • 47
FOOD SECURITY
Backpack Food Program - Since
$2.8 MILLION TOTAL FUNDS DONATED IN 2023
2007, Valero has contributed more
Over the years Valero has supported numerous programs than $3.3 million to local agencies
that provide nourishing meals to help end hunger. The to ensure students and families
following are some examples of recent efforts. have meals on the weekends,
during school holidays and summer
Corpus Christi, Texas Houston, Texas - Valero breaks. In 2023, Valero invested
- Valero’s $1.5 million committed $500,000 toward more than $550,000 to serve more
investment helped the Coastal Kids Meals’ new 54,000-square- than 10,000 students across these
Bend Food Bank open the doors foot building. The organization organizations:
to its new 108,000-square- serves nearly 7,500 children per
• Albion, Nebraska – Blessings in a
foot building, which stores and day and expects demand to Backpack
distributes food for 970,000 increase to 26,000 children daily • Amarillo, Texas – Snack Pak 4 Kids
individuals annually. by 2031. • Aurora, South Dakota – Brookings
Backpack Program
• Benicia, California – Food Bank of
Pembroke, UK - Valero donated Port Arthur, Texas - Valero
Contra Costa
$12,000 to Pembrokeshire Food partnered with Nutrition &
• Charles City, Iowa – Community
Bank. Refinery employees Services for Seniors and provided
School District, Project Rise
donated thousands of pounds $45,000 for building renovations
• Crawfordsville, Indiana –
of food, helping more than 5,000 to the food distribution center Montgomery County Youth
families. that feeds more than 500,000 Service Bureau, Nourish Backpack
seniors in Southeast Texas. Program
• Houston, Texas – Kids Meals and
Target Hunger
Callao, Peru - More than 6
• Hartley, Iowa – Kids Backpack
tons of food was donated Program
to the Beneficiencia de • Lafayette, Indiana – Food Finders,
Callao, an organization Tippecanoe Backpack Program
that cares for the elderly • Port Arthur, Texas – Southeast
Texas Food Bank
and underprivileged in the
Callao area, near Valero’s Food drive in Callao, Peru • St. Bernard Parish, Louisiana –
Community Center of St. Bernard
terminal.
• Texas City, Texas – Galveston
County Food Bank
• Waterloo, Iowa – Northeast Iowa
Québec City, Canada - Valero has partnered with Moisson Québec, the
Food Bank
largest food assistance organization in the Québec City area, to help
• Wilmington, California - Food
feed 850 families in need every month by providing 67,500 meals. Finders, Food 4 Kids Program
Feeding the Soul at the Holidays - In the spirit of caring for its communities, Valero
provided 1,900 families with food items to help prepare holiday meals, partnering
with the Los Angeles Police Foundation in Wilmington, California; Feed the Needy in
Memphis, Tennessee; Corpus Christi Food Bank in Corpus Christi, Texas; Charlotte’s
Cupboard in Port Arthur, Texas; the City of San Antonio; and neighbors in St. Charles
Parish, Louisiana.
Wilmington, California, 400 families Port Arthur, Texas, 400 families
Memphis, Tennessee, 475 families San Antonio, Texas, 250 families
Corpus Christi, Texas, 300 families St. Charles Parish, Louisiana, 75 families
48
Community
HOUSING AND BASIC NEEDS
Ronald McDonald House - Keeping
children near the care they need
$13.2 MILLION TOTAL FUNDS DONATED IN 2023
so families can get better together.
Housing is critical to reducing poverty, increasing economic
Through the years, Valero has
mobility, and helping families build strong social and cultural
provided more than $3.4 million
ties with their communities. Valero works with various
to Ronald McDonald House in
agencies that help provide families with a place to call home.
many communities where it has
The following are some examples of recent efforts.
operations, including Wilmington,
California; San Antonio, Houston,
Dumas, Corpus Christi and
Memphis, Tennessee - Since 2019, Valero has partnered with Alpha
Texas City, Texas; Memphis,
Omega Veterans Services, which provides lodging services to
Tennessee; Aurora, South Dakota;
transitional veterans. In 2023, Valero provided a $50,000 grant to
Bloomingburg, Ohio; Charles City,
the agency’s Homes for Heroes program for a new state-of-the-
Iowa; and South Louisiana.
art home for veterans in a campus-style facility that will also offer
enhanced supportive services such as an exercise gym, library, In 2023, Valero provided over
basketball gymnasium, arts and music therapy and a full-service $275,000 to help more than 1,500
computer lab. More than 250 veterans are served annually. families with travel expenses for
their children’s healthcare needs.
In addition to providing funding
Benicia, California - Valero supported Rebuilding Together
support, Valero volunteers in
Solano County’s Veteran Home Rehab that provides necessary
Wilmington helped the local Ronald
health and safety repairs for low-income veterans. With Valero's
McDonald House by building a
contribution, the agency was able to distribute safe-at-home kits
children’s playhouse and added
to 1,600 veterans, active military and surviving families of veterans.
trikes, patio furniture, plants for
the garden and lighting, so that
Corpus Christi, Texas - Valero partnered with Sea City Work
families could enjoy nights outside.
Camp, a group organized in 1993. The camp teaches young people
technical and leadership skills, and helps them build self-esteem,
while they provide home repairs for families in need. In 2023, Greyson was
through Valero’s donation of $10,000, volunteers repaired the roof of born 10 weeks
a family’s home near the refinery in the Dona Park neighborhood. early. During
Greyson’s 51-
day stay at
his hospital’s
Sea City Work Camp participants repair a roof in the Dona
neonatal
Park neighborhood near the Valero Corpus Christi Refineries.
intensive
care unit, the
Ronald McDonald House of South
Louisiana provided his mom,
Charlene, with lodging, daily
transportation to and from the
hospital and hot meals. Charlene
said, “Our stay here has been
wonderful. The staff were always
helpful and nice. They treat you
like family.”
Environmental, Social and Governance Report • 49
Volunteerism is Part of Valero’s Major Valero Fundraisers Generated
Culture More Than $44 Million
More than 129,400 Employee United Way
Volunteer Hours in 2023
In 2023, we pledged more than $20.4 million
Mexico City, Mexico – In partnership with Fondo to United Way, making our total contribution
Unido de Mexico (United Way Mexico), Valero since 1980 more than $275 million. Last
volunteers helped local schools by completing year’s campaign supported 60 United Way
painting projects, updating bathrooms, enhancing affiliates across 32 states.
sports facilities, and creating a safe and clean
student environment.
“Valero’s support has been an anchor of stability for us
Port Arthur, Texas – Valero volunteers completely to provide relief and temporary housing after events like
renovated an old baseball field for Port Arthur's Little hurricanes and tornados. Put simply, the support from
League, giving 200 local baseball players a safe Valero makes our community a better place.”
place to learn the game and take pride in their home - John Dias, Executive Director, United Way of
field. St. Charles
"Valero's partnership with United Way of North Central
Iowa has been so valuable. They are true leaders in
giving back to the community."
- Jen Arends, CEO, United Way of North Central Iowa,
serving Charles City and Lakota
Port Arthur, Texas, Little League baseball field "Year after year, the Valero Meraux Refinery consistently
renovation ranks among the top most generous workplaces in the
region. Their support has been instrumental in driving
local community impact, closing gaps, and creating
pathways to a better future for countless individuals and
Three Rivers, Texas – Valero volunteers collected 131
families."
binders and 57 backpacks to provide school supplies
- Michael Williamson, President and CEO, United Way
in Live Oak and McMullen counties.
of Southeast Louisiana, serving St. Bernard Parish
Houston, Texas – To help local students prepare for
the school year, Valero volunteers distributed 200
"Valero earns huge success on the many services to our
backpacks filled with school supplies to children in
community and United Way."
neighborhoods near the Valero Houston Refinery.
- Jackie Wiswell, Executive Director, United Way of
Texas City, Texas – Valero volunteers supported
Moore County, serving the Texas Panhandle
Galveston County’s Food Bank haunted house by
cooking barbecue plates for more than 4,000 people.
"Valero continuously considers the community's
Benicia, California – Valero volunteers supported
needs and how they can create a positive impact and
the Benicia Lion Club’s Crab Feed, which raised more
then take action. Valero is the company that every
than $12,000 for community events, such as vision
community hopes for."
and health screenings.
- Janie Johnson, CEO, United Way of Mid & South
Amarillo, Texas - Valero volunteers from the
Jefferson County, serving the Port Arthur, Texas,
company's Amarillo Payment Service Center assisted
community
in packaging more than 25,000 meals to residents in
partnership with High Plains Food Bank.
50
Community
Valero Texas Open
and Valero Benefit for
Children
The Valero Texas Open
continues to be a leader on
the PGA TOUR in charitable
fundraising, with an all-
time total of $256 million,
including funds raised in
2024. With the support
and generosity of Valero's
business partners and
sponsors, the Valero Texas
Open, Valero Benefit for
Children and Champions Eric Fisher, Senior Vice President Product Supply, Trading and Wholesale, is
fore Charity generated $24 joined by the 2024 Valero Texas Open champion, Akshay Bhatia, and children
million in proceeds in 2024 at the First Tee of San Antonio during the tournament.
alone.
In 2023, funds were
Business Partner Spotlight: Burns & McDonnell - Since 2003, Burns & McDonnell
directed to:
has been a critical business partner offering various services, especially
Basic Needs: 32%
engineering, procurement and construction. They have been involved in the
Education: 44%
development of Valero's renewable diesel plant and the SAF project adjacent to the
Healthcare: 24%
Valero Port Arthur Refinery. In addition, Burns & McDonnell has been a significant
supporter of the Valero Benefit for Children since 2017, supporting hundreds of
The Valero Benefit
agencies dedicated to the well-being of children.
for Children funds
children’s programs in “'We Invest in a Better World' is a principle we at Burns
the communities where & McDonnell deeply resonate with, and we take great
Valero operates, to support pride in the opportunity to contribute alongside our
initiatives targeting basic Valero friends. Together, we strive to make meaningful
differences in communities across the U.S.”
needs, education, and
healthcare. -Ed Anello, Vice President, Burns & McDonnell
Making a Difference Around the World
We are a significant employer, and we strongly contribute to the local economy in the communities where
we operate. Our direct and indirect financial support helps local businesses, education and other economic
development needs, thereby contributing to the overall health and vitality of the communities where we operate
across the globe.
9,90853 10,000+ $233,331 $1.8 billion
direct jobs bolstering contractors median total annual spent in 2023 on maintenance
local economies with compensation of all employees and growth projects boosting
payrolls for 2023, excluding our CEO54 construction and service jobs
See non-GAAP disclosures beginning on page 80.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report • 51
People
Our people and our company culture are fundamental to our success.
Members of Valero's
operations team at
the Valero Wilmington
Refinery
Our company Our Company Culture and Human Capital Strategy
culture and
Our people strategy and programs are designed and implemented in support of our
well-defined
business and strategic objectives. In building and fostering great teams, we are guided
expectations of
by the following:
ethics and behavior
guide the daily work • We strive to hire and promote top-talent employees with team-oriented work ethics
of our employees and values;
and support our • Our pay, benefits and support programs are designed to attract and retain excellent
efforts to produce employees and to reward innovation, ingenuity and excellence;
exceptional • We seek to provide a best-in-class work
91% of employees are
results. The six environment built on a foundation of respect,
"satisfied with the range of
values that define accountability and trust;
benefits Valero has to offer."55
our culture are • We promote a culture of learning intended to
Safety, Excellence, drive excellence at all levels of the organization and to foster career-long growth and
development opportunities for employees; and
Accountability,
Teamwork, Do the • We continually assess employee performance, organizational structures and
succession plans to support operational excellence, efficiency and effectiveness.
Right Thing and
Caring. From our intern program to our Board, and at all levels in between, we strive to build
dynamic and engaged teams. We evaluate the effectiveness of our outreach, recruiting
and retention efforts, in part by reviewing the demographics of our intern program and
of our existing employee population each year, in accordance with our obligations as a
federal contractor.
5522
People
Driving Success Through Culture
Our people deserve an exceptional work environment that Our Workforce in 202356
welcomes new ideas, cultivates strong teams and promotes
Global Represented by
safe, healthy and rewarding careers. Valero's culture values are
Employees Labor Unions
built on trust and respect, and act as the compass and source
of inspiration for everything we do. 9,908 18%
Workforce Locations
Safety is our foundation for Valero employees treat every
success. From workplace safety to day like game day – working 83% 8% 7% 2%
health and wellness, employees hard, being disciplined and US U.K./Ireland Canada Mexico/Peru
are encouraged to promote and holding ourselves to the
demonstrate their commitment to highest standards to deliver Operations
safety at all times. best-in-class results.
77% 23%
Field Operations Corporate
Employees make a personal Strong teams drive successful
choice to take ownership of organizations. Valero believes
Veteran (U.S.)
performance. Creating an that great teamwork and strong People Leaders (U.S.)
12%
environment of accountability relationships are built through (Supervisor and Above)
helps achieve important respectful collaboration, the
company goals and drives sharing of diverse perspectives 23% 27% Self-Disclosed
excellence. and strong communication. Women Minority Disability (U.S.)
14%
Our commitment to integrity Through caring, we create
Race / Ethnicity
means doing the right thing opportunities to positively
for the right reason. Our impact the teams we support, 61% 39% 25% Hispanic
people are trustworthy and the environment we share, the White Minority 7% Black
7% Other
set positive examples, leading customers we serve and the
to open, honest and sincere communities where we live
Female Representation
communication. and work.
10% Hourly 19% Senior
19%
Workforce Commitment - We believe that having employees 30% Professional Leadership (Director
Women
from different backgrounds with a variety of talents, experience, 21% Engineers and Above)
education and perspectives helps create diverse, innovative and
engaged teams, which provide strengths and advantages for our Years of Service
success. Our policy is to ensure equal employment opportunity
31% 20% 31% 18%
without illegal discrimination or harassment based on race,
< 5 Years 5-9 Years 10-19 Years 20+ Years
color, religion, national origin, age, sex, marital status, physical
or mental disability, veteran status or any other characteristic
Turnover Rate (U.S.)
protected under applicable law. Our outreach and recruiting
efforts include analyzing and broadening where we recruit and 4.1%
the business partnerships we foster, and ensuring our recruiting
teams are trained on objective hiring, along with the importance U.S. Interns (290 in 2023)
of hiring candidates who add to our team culture.
39% 61% 47% 53%
Board Oversight - The Human Resources and Compensation Women Men Minority Non-Minority
Committee assists the Board in overseeing Valero’s
compensation, succession planning for our CEO and other senior Generations
executives as well as initiatives and strategies in the areas of
6% 40% 44% 10%
human capital management and leadership development.
Gen Z Millennial Gen X Boomer
At least annually, our senior management team, including the
Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer, reports
to the Board on these key focus areas.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report • 53
Moving Forward Together
Valero strives to build a sense of community and belonging
for our employees through shared experiences and mutual
respect. A collaborative, welcoming work environment is
fostered through teamwork, networking and open discussion,
along with annual observances and outreach activities.
Stronger Connections Through Engagement
Valero offers employees unique opportunities to build
understanding and create strong connections through
employee networks and discussions, guest forums and
Creating connections through shared values cultural experiences. From day one, employees are
includes our U.S. veterans, who comprise 12% of
immersed in experiences that reinforce Valero’s culture,
our workforce companywide.
vision and guiding principles, as well as our company’s
position as a responsible, team-driven industry leader. We
work to create supportive environments for all employees.
Employee Networks – Our employees have opportunities to
connect, in person and virtually, through company-driven
and employee-driven networks, including:
• Team Valero Ambassadors: An employee engagement
network to promote observances, education and
awareness. At field locations, ambassadors also
participate in recruiting and outreach efforts for talent
acquisition to engage top talent across our communities.
• Valero Volunteer Councils: Employees who lead
and promote employee volunteer activities in their
Valero Volunteer Council presidents from across
communities.
our operations attended training at headquarters,
and volunteered at Meals on Wheels. • Valero Mentor Program (Intern Program): A mentoring
group assigned to summer interns for support and
guidance throughout their internship.
• Total Wellness Ambassadors: An employee team that
promotes wellness awareness and activities to our
workforce.
• Women’s Engineering Network: A grassroots network to
share knowledge and experiences unique to women in
the field of engineering.
• Emerging Leaders Network: A United Way-inspired group
of early career employees who connect with each other
and company leaders, build industry knowledge and
understand how their roles support the business.
Interns at our Corpus Christi refineries learn on the • New Employee Integration, Frontline Leadership and
job through subject matter experts as part of the Beyond Frontline Cohorts: Network-building programs
Valero Intern Program. for peers with access to leadership advice to continue
their professional development.
5544
People
Attracting the Best Talent
We strive to hire the best and Nearly
Valero Pembroke Refinery
brightest talent to advance 900 new
our company goals and our employees
industry. in 2023.
In 2023, we continued to enhance our
recruitment process to expand our talent
network and ensure that Valero attracts
the most qualified candidates. Our hiring
practices support efforts to build the best
teams through robust interview protocols;
expanded recruiting efforts to broaden our pool
of qualified candidates; blind resume reviews;
and partnerships with external recruiters.
Our policies, training and guidance for hiring
managers ensure that new talent strengthens
our culture through innovation, a range of skills
and expertise and unique perspectives
Recruiting Highlights
Hiring Training – Hiring managers and Women at Valero
college recruiting teams are required to
Valero values the impact and contributions made
complete interview training, which raises
by women throughout the company. For women in
awareness, mitigates bias and provides tools
professional and operational roles, Valero provides
to ensure that all applicants receive fair and
programs and resources that support peace of mind at
equitable treatment in the recruitment and
different stages of life and career progression.
hiring process.
We continue to improve our gender demographics with
Expectations and Standards – We provide
respect to women’s achievement in leadership.
equal opportunities for applicants to ensure
inclusion of women, minorities, veterans with
protected status and qualified individuals Five-Year Impact
with disabilities. Valero’s Code of Business
2018 2023 Change
Conduct and Ethics further outlines our
expectations, including zero tolerance for Women in Executive
workplace discrimination based on race, Leadership 11% 18% 64%
ethnicity, religion, sex, sexual orientation, (VP and above)
disability, gender identification, age or any
status protected under applicable law, or Women in Senior
harassment of any kind. Leadership 17% 19% 12%
(Director and above)
Reporting Systems – Employees and
contractors have access to a confidential,
Women in
toll-free Ethics Helpline that is independently 17% 21% 24%
Engineering
operated and available at all times.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report • 55
Developing Stronger
Teams
For a dynamic, global workforce,
opportunities are provided to help
employees connect, develop expertise
and strengthen teams. These include, Valero has been a partner of excellence at Trinity University in San Antonio
but are not limited to: since 1984, contributing nearly $1 million to expand scholarships, improve
facilities and strengthen business programming.
• New Hire Orientation
• New Employee Integration Program
• Informal Mentorship Program
Education and Community Partnerships
• Frontline Leadership
• Performance Management Training In addition to strategic partnerships with major universities, Valero also
partners with local workforce agencies, colleges and high schools that
Renewables Operator
stimulate and support a community-based workforce. Our education
Qualifications - A 12-week program
partnerships include Hispanic Serving Institutions, Historically Black
for newly hired ethanol plant operators
Colleges and Universities and other academic institutions to connect with
prepares trainees for optimal
local talent and widen our outreach.
performance once on the job, teaching
them to safely monitor, operate and Ardmore, Oklahoma Memphis, Tennessee
troubleshoot units in their designated • Southern Tech • Goodwill Excel Centers Memphis
• Strength In Numbers
areas. • HBCUs – Lemoyne-Owen College,
• Ardmore ISD Rust College, Jackson State
Refinery Basic Operator Training • Madill ISD University
(BOT) - A 10-week, refinery-based • Marietta ISD • Latino Memphis
program lays the groundwork for a safe • Oklahoma School for the Deaf • Alpha Omega Veteran Services
and successful career in operations. • Veterans and DRS (Rehabilitation • Soulsville Charter School
Services) – Okla. Workforce • Vision Prep. School
By leveraging internal subject matter
Solutions
• Creative Life Prep. School
instructors and bringing experienced
• Military Organizations (Tinker AFB,
• Riverview Middle School
employees into the classroom to Fort Sill Army Base, Okla. National
share their experience and knowledge, Guard) New Orleans, Louisiana
• Murray State College – Single • River Parishes Community College
new-operator integration is built on
Mothers Success Program • St. Charles Parish High School
a foundation of existing expertise
(focused on STEAM) Satellite Center
at Valero. In 2023, more than 10,000 • Destrehan High School
Corpus Christi, Texas
applications were received for • Hahnville High School
• Buccaneer Commission
more than 200 openings across our • NextOp (Military/Veteran
• Corpus Christi ISD
Organization)
refineries. Successful applicants • Craft Training Center
• LA Workforce Commission
demonstrated mechanical aptitude, • Del Mar Community College
Veterans Alliance
a willingness to learn and dedication Process Tech Program, Operator
Application Workshop Pembroke, Wales
to safety. Our selection process is
• Texas A&M Univ. – Corpus Christi • Pembrokeshire College
designed to produce a slate of highly
• Texas A&M Univ. – Kingsville Port Arthur, Texas
qualified candidates who, once hired, • Tuloso-Midway ISD • Lamar University
are provided this training to prepare • Lamar State College – Port Arthur
• Coastal Bend Workforce
& Orange
them for their first post and a long- Commission
• Port Arthur ISD Career & Technical
term career. Sunray, Texas Center
• Amarillo College • Bridge City ISD, Hamshire Fannett
BOT graduate typical starting • Frank Phillips College ISD, Vidor ISD, Beaumont ISD
• Dumas ISD (Teacher Externship Programs)
pay and rewards exceed
• Nederland High School
• Amarillo Hispanic Chamber of
$100,000.57 • 100 Black Men of Greater
Commerce
Beaumont
• Texas Veteran Commission
• Texas Workforce Solutions –
• West Texas A&M University Vocational Rehabilitation Services
5566
People
Valero Talent Pipeline Valero’s Engineering Summit
Creating a sustainable and robust talent pipeline is The Freshman Engineering Summit is a four-day
foundational to identifying and developing future immersive experience for high-performing engineering
leaders. We continue to enhance our recruitment students from various socio-economic and education
process to reach the most talented pool of candidates backgrounds (including first-generation) who completed
possible. Our college and university partners, intern their freshman year of college. Through workshops,
program and Engineering Summit help us not only roundtable discussions, a hands-on refinery tour, a
identify top talent, but also create new opportunities for volunteer event and exposure to Valero’s talented
such talent to emerge. workforce, the Summit introduces a new generation
of engineering talent to the world of energy and to our
Valero Intern Program
In 2023, 36% of company. As part of their experience, each student
Through summer and ongoing engineering receives a $1,500 scholarship and an invitation to apply to
opportunities and co-ops, interns were Valero’s next summer intern program.
we extend internships to female.
high-performing college
students across a variety of business functions,
Total People Investment
including engineering, accounting, commercial,
– $2.3 Billion in 202358
marketing, information systems, cybersecurity, legal,
communications and human resources.
PAY EQUITY RATIO:
For more than 25 years, the Valero Intern 99% Gender
Program has become the primary recruiting 100% Minority
vehicle for our professional workforce.
GLOBAL COMPENSATION:
In addition to providing an avenue for students to gain
valuable job experience and to learn about Valero’s $1.3 BILLION Direct Compensation
culture, our intern program allows Valero to attract and $338 MILLION Bonus Payments
retain the company’s future talent. Our intern program $104 MILLION Incentive Stock Awards
includes:
• Competitive pay.
BENEFITS AND PROGRAMS:
• Company-paid medical and dental benefits.
Physical Well-Being $187 MILLION
• Company-matched 401(k) and Pension Plan.
• Formal mentorship program. Financial Well-Being $336 MILLION
• Professional and personal development. Emotional Well-Being $102 MILLION
• Relocation assistance.
• Exposure to business operations, company
MEDIAN-PAID EMPLOYEE:
leadership and industry experts.
$233,331 Total Compensation54
• Social and community involvement.
• Annual all-intern symposium at Valero Top 10 compensation ranking in the S&P 50059
headquarters. Valero supports living wage principles.
In 2023, we welcomed 290 interns to Valero
EQUAL PAY COMMITMENT:
representing 43 colleges and universities.
The largest and most diverse class to Valero is committed to equal pay opportunities
date included 39% female interns and 47% for all employees, regardless of protected
interns representing racial/ethnic minority. status.
Approximately 86% of interns who received
full-time offers accepted and chose to begin
their careers at Valero.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report • 57
Total Wellness and Rewards
Valero’s Total Wellness benefits and programs support our employees’
Emotional, Physical and Financial Well-Being and reflect our culture and
thoughtful investment in our workforce.
Our Total Wellness mission is to create a work environment that fosters
employee well-being while educating them in healthy lifestyle and sound
financial choices. From hire to retire, this investment in our greatest asset delivers the ultimate return — a safe,
healthy and productive workforce committed to the success of our company.
Our Approach:
• Foster a wellness culture that provides meaningful resources for every employee and promotes access
regardless of personal circumstances.
• Provide competitive benefit offerings for every stage of life, from early career into retirement.
• Thoughtfully consider programs and resources that address challenges
employees could face as they seek better overall health and well-being for 90% of employees feel
themselves and their families. that "Valero is invested
in their health and
• Provide financial education and security for employees’ long-term stability
wellness." 55
as a complement to Valero’s fair and equitable compensation practices
and pay-for-performance philosophy.
• Provide adaptable policies and support that allow for individualized choice and that address the diverse needs
of a large workforce.
We continually evaluate our benefit offerings to support the best possible health and wellness outcomes
for our people and to help determine the most appropriate allocation of company resources. Through peer
benchmarking, employee surveys and exit interviews, we work to ensure program investments are competitive in
attracting and retaining top talent.
1. Emotional Well-Being
Valero offers wide-ranging benefits to address emotional
well-being, including:
Employee Assistance Program – Life Connections: Life
Connections is a confidential, free support service that
provides access to a wide range of employee and family
support, including:
• Wellness tips and reminders.
• Child care and elder care referral services and
suggestions.
Valero's Total Wellness program is designed
• Counseling services for family, relationships, stress, grief
to help employees find balance and
and other concerns.
wellness at work and in their home life.
• Support programs for mental health conditions, such as
insomnia, chronic pain and substance abuse.
Similar assistance programs and resources are offered for our international employees in the United Kingdom and
Ireland, Canada and Mexico. In Peru, a certified social worker is employed to support the needs of our employees,
from personal well-being and rehabilitation to conflict resolution/mediation, family counseling, student support
and research, among others.
5588
People
Behavioral and Mental Health Benefits Generous Vacation and Leave Programs
In an effort to build greater awareness of available Valero recognizes the importance
$108 million
mental health resources, we have added of providing the opportunity for rest,
vacation and
initiatives and access points to help employees recovery, recreation and personal
paid leave in
meet their unique needs. This includes awareness time to meet employee and family
2023.
campaigns, virtual and in-person access to health needs. Competitive paid leave
wellness experts, meditation resources, stress and allowances provide short- and long-term support while
anxiety workshops, nutritional clinics and annual employees are away, encouraging greater emotional and
wellness assessments. Other benefits supporting physical wellness upon return to work. Leave programs
behavioral health include: include, but are not limited to:
• Virtual program focused on cognitive • Parental Leave Policy: In the U.S., our childbirth leave is
behavioral therapy (CBT). available on the date of hire and includes nine weeks
• Mobile app offering support for anxiety, of paid leave. In addition, three weeks of paid parental
depression and stress. leave/bonding are offered for all new parents, including
• Virtual therapy sessions through multiple adoption and surrogacy. In total, birth mothers are
providers. given 12 weeks of paid leave. A package of helpful
resources and support links are sent to Valero parents
Additional services and workplace events
in advance of the birth, including a summary of leave
encourage habits that improve emotional health
provisions. For non-U.S. employees, paid parental leave
and support better work-life balance. Examples in
meets or exceeds legal requirements in those countries.
the U.S. include:
• Total Wellness Fairs to bring health and
‘Hello Baby’ and Family Gift Program: From the
wellness vendors and resources to employees.
time an employee provides notification about an
• "Get Outside Valero" event encourages expected new arrival, through their leave time
families to foster mental and physical health. and transition back to work, new parents receive
• "Pills and Paper Purge" event (partnership with continual support. Helpful resources, guidance
the U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency) to de- and gifts are provided to parents as they navigate
clutter and de-stress. changes and welcome a new family member.
• Fitness challenges to grow physical/mental
wellness. • Family Illness Leave: U.S. employees are eligible for 10
days of paid leave to care for family members. For non-
• Virtual wellness incentive platform to
U.S. employees, paid family leave meets or exceeds
encourage physical activity and take
legal requirements of foreign countries.
preventive steps to maintain health.
• Military Service Leave Beyond Minimum Standards
• Internal "Total Wellness" portal with resources.
(U.S.): Valero offers differential pay for employees
• Accessible videos encouraging proper form
called to active and reserve duty. For long-term
and movement during physical exercise.
assignments/deployment, Valero employees and their
families continue to be eligible to receive all company-
sponsored health and welfare benefits.
• Vacation: Competitive vacation schedules are offered
based on years of service and recognition of prior
relevant experience upon hire.
Valero’s Ardmore Refinery hosted an on-site
Valero Family Day.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report • 59
2. Physical Well-Being
Providing the time and
$187 million
resources our employees need
to be healthy is critical for invested in 2023
success inside and outside of in the physical
work. Nutrition, exercise and rest health of our
are only part of the equation. employees.
Being educated and motivated
On-site wellness centers help employees prioritize
to improve physical and mental wellness is equally
Total Wellness and address health questions
important. In support, Valero provides customized
proactively. A family clinic in San Antonio also
employee programs companywide, including: provides care for eligible dependents.
Comprehensive healthcare plans –
96% of Eligible Employees Enrolled in
Medical Coverage in 2023
On-Site Employee Wellness Centers and
Company-paid benefits for Valero's largest employee Family Wellness Center (U.S.)
group include elective benefit options, such as Medical,
The goal of Valero on-site wellness centers is to
Prescription Drug, Dental, and Vision Insurance; Flexible
provide convenient access to high-quality primary
Spending Accounts; Health Savings Account; Life
care for acute, routine and preventive services for
Insurance; Legal Insurance; and Group Critical Illness.
employees and, at corporate headquarters, their
The majority of full-time U.S. employees receive eligible dependents. At certain Valero locations, on-site
company contributions to cover the full cost of wellness centers provide routine services, including:
coverage under most medical benefit options.
• Diagnostics and treatment of employee illnesses
Referred to as “Valero Provided Dollars,” this investment
and minor injuries.
allows employees flexibility to fully customize benefit
coverage for specific individual and family needs, • Physician-led management of chronic conditions.
while minimizing or eliminating employee healthcare • Annual vaccinations.
premiums. Outside the U.S., employees receive a
• Allergy shots.
significant contribution toward the cost of healthcare
• Smoking cessation.
coverage in their respective countries. In the majority
of cases, contributions cover 100% of the cost for • Weight loss support and diabetes intervention.
employees.
97% of respondents agree Valero’s on-site
wellness centers are a valued benefit.60
Annual Wellness Assessments
Annual confidential
3,698 employee annual
wellness assessments are
wellness assessments
free to Valero employees
were completed
and offered at a reduced
companywide in 2023.
rate for spouses and
retirees. This valuable individualized assessment
creates a comprehensive picture of personal health
and a baseline to allow for more educated, proactive
Valero Texas City Refinery health decisions and discussions with the individual
healthcare provider.
6600
People
3. Financial Well-Being and Rewards
Attracting and retaining the
$336 million in
best people in our industry
support of financial
requires a layered and uniquely
security and
personal approach to financial
retirement in 2023.
stability. Valero’s compensation
and financial wellness strategy greatly supports these
Wellness resources include an on-site objectives, providing motivation, rewards and investment
fitness center at many Valero locations, opportunities for an exceptional workforce.
and a fitness subsidy for employees at
U.S. sites without gyms. Generous 401(k) Match - 95% of Eligible U.S.
Employees Enrolled in 401(k) Plan in 2023
Valero is proud to provide an excellent retirement savings
plan that, if utilized to the fullest, helps provide significant
Fitness Centers, Subsidies and financial security for employees later in life. For the
majority of our U.S. employees, the available company
Online Resources
match under the primary savings plan is up to 7% of
99% of employee
Equipped fitness centers
eligible pay and vests immediately.
survey respondents
are available on-site at
most major U.S. locations, strongly believe Company-Sponsored Pension Plan
including a full-time Valero’s corporate
As an added layer of financial security, the majority of U.S.
fitness staff at company Fitness Center is a
employees are automatically enrolled in an exceptional
headquarters. valued benefit.61
pension plan after one year of service. Vesting reaches
Additionally, Total Wellness programs and 100% after three years of service.
resources are designed to support the ongoing
Annual Merit and Bonus Awards
physical health goals of our employees and to
provide easy access through in-person and virtual The Annual Merit Award process adjusts eligible
means. employees’ salaries for market competitiveness,
performance and relativity to peers. Managers are able to
Valero Child Care Center (or stipend ensure equitable pay for all team members. Discretionary
for childcare services) Annual Bonus Awards recognize employees who
contribute to Valero’s success, and serve as a pathway to
The children of Valero employees are an important
review employee performance over the past year.
extension of Team Valero. Parents have access
to state-of-the-art, licensed and accredited
childcare centers, either on-site or within the
employee’s local area. Back-up child care and
tutoring services are also available through a
Valero partnership.
Other
Medical specialist consultations, on-site
mammograms, mother’s rooms or designated
areas and nursing pods.
Valero Aurora Ethanol Plant
Environmental, Social and Governance Report • 61
Valero Perks at Work
Perks at Work is a discount program that gives access
to exclusive savings on quality of life enhancements
and conveniences such as household items, travel,
electronics and many more.
Employee Tuition Reimbursement
The Valero Educational
More than $838,000
Assistance Program
was awarded to
supports employees’
employees in 2023.
continuing education Valero Hartley Ethanol Plant Manager
(college or specialized certifications) relevant to
professional development.
Developing Our Leaders
Customized Financial Education & Planning
Educational workshops We are committed to building a strong learning culture,
Employees attended
have been created to where all employees are supported in reaching their
more than 2,029 hours
assist in putting personal full potential.
of financial education
financial goals within
in 2023. More than 705,000 hours of training and
reach. Employees have
more than 9,950 training classes offered to
regular opportunities to attend free financial education
employees in 2023.62
webinars such as Valero’s Planning for Retirement and
Financial Habits that Matter workshops.
At the core of every successful Valero leader is a full
understanding of our business, our culture and the
Adoption Assistance
people who drive our success. We develop our leaders
Adopting a child is a life-changing experience for the and team members to motivate, engage and support
child and his/her new family. Valero is proud to support an inclusive workforce that expands our talent pipeline
families by reimbursing a portion of adoption-related and reduces turnover.
expenses.
We offer a comprehensive training and development
program for our employees in subjects such as
Valero Scholarship
Since 1981, Valero has engineering and technical excellence, safety,
Program for
awarded more than environmental, maintenance and machinery/
Dependents
800 scholarships equipment repair, ethics, leadership and employee
Each year, a selection of totaling $6.9 million to performance. We also require all employees to
outstanding children of employee dependents. complete training on technical matters, such as
Valero employees receive cybersecurity and information technology security,
a Valero Scholarship, based on scholastic achievement, and various compliance and corporate conduct
community involvement and leadership qualities. Each matters, including business ethics, conflicts of interest,
recipient receives $2,500 per year for up to four years of and anti-bribery and anti-corruption, among others.
undergraduate studies. Our employee development initiatives include
customized professional and technical curriculums,
Other
efforts to engage our leadership in the employee’s
Retiree medical benefit (subsidized in certain cases); development process, and providing employee
health savings account contribution; short- and long- performance discussions. We offer a robust virtual
term disability; and financial hardship funds. training curriculum, which allows for greater availability
and access for employees located across our many
facilities and enables timely training.
6622
People
Training Programs
ALL-EMPLOYEE PROGRAMS / 36 programs in 2023
Developing Team Valero – Instructor-led courses targeting
professional and technical topics.
Individualized Development – Behavioral assessment review to
understand individual strengths and weaknesses.
Other – Valero development library; compliance and regulatory
training; and business acumen resources.
ROLE-SPECIFIC PROGRAMS / 1,088 programs in 2023
Valero San Antonio Headquarters
Engineering Technical Excellence Program – Structured two-
track program designed to enhance and sharpen the technical
skills of early career and experienced engineers.
Subject Matter Instructor (SMI) Development – Program
designed to cultivate Valero’s internal experts across the
organization and prepare them to deliver training sessions –
virtually or in person – on a wide range of department-specific or
professional topics.
Instructor Development – Individualized development and
coaching of experts for preparation to facilitate courses.
Other – Engineering development virtual program; commercial
development program; and operations qualification and unit
specific courses.
LEADERSHIP PROGRAMS / 68 programs in 2023
Supervisor Toolkit – Designed to prepare our new supervisors
for their role, we provide a 12-month road map on day one of
promotion, which outlines information on developing essential Valero Three Rivers Refinery
skills, building strong teams, ensuring an inclusive work
environment and understanding their leadership style.
Frontline & Beyond Frontline – Required program building
essential skills for managing and leading others includes a year-
long cohort learning experience with an executive leader coach.
LeaderTalks – Program supports experienced leaders with
unique opportunities to learn directly from executive leaders’ first-
hand experiences and perspectives on essential leadership skills.
Refinery Supervisor Development – Customized curriculum
designed to reinforce expectations of field leaders to build strong
teams and drive operational excellence.
Other – Leadership transition guide; extraordinary leaders
program; and performance management resources. Valero Memphis Refinery
Environmental, Social and Governance Report • 63
Governance
We view our stakeholders
as partners to whom we
seek to deliver operational
excellence, disciplined
management of capital
and long-term value on
a foundation of strong
governance and ethical
standards.
Governance and Risk Management
64
draoB
lluF
Key functions
and areas of
Risk Management and Oversight Structure Audit oversight and
Committee
responsibility
include
Valero’s:
• Risk management and oversight Key functions
Human Resources and areas of
are responsibilities of the full Board.
and Compensation oversight and
The full Board exercises its oversight responsibility
Committee
responsibilities directly and through its include:
committees.
• Valero's low-carbon fuels strategy is a
priority and focus for the full Board. In
fact, for the past three years Valero's low- Key functions
Nominating and and areas of
carbon fuels strategy has been one of the
Corporate Governance oversight and
key topics of the Board's annual three- responsibility
Committee
day strategic planning meeting with include:
management.
Key functions
Sustainability and areas of
and Public Policy oversight and
responsibility
Committee
include:
Governance
Management and
other employees
engage in day-to-day
risk identification and
management, and
promote safety, through:
• Executing our risk
identification and
management
• Risks and other matters related to our compensation and talent management programs,
programs, plans and
policies and strategies, including Valero's benefit plans;
systems, such as our
• Management succession planning for Valero's CEO and other senior executives;
CTEMS, EERA and FMS;
• Valero's initiatives and strategies in the areas of human capital management and
leadership development; and • Taking an
• Compliance with Valero's Stock Ownership and Retention Guidelines. interdisciplinary
approach that
coordinates the
• Ensuring that the Board and its committees have the necessary mix of knowledge, skills, views of various
experience and other attributes; teams and subject
• Identifying and recommending qualified director nominees; matter experts
• Developing and recommending a set of corporate governance principles applicable to across Valero, and
Valero;
facilitates continual
• The Board's and its committees' annual self-evaluation of performance;
communication on
• Valero's new director orientation and director continuing education programs; and
risk-related matters;
• Reviewing and acting on any related-party transactions.
and
• Reporting to the
• HSE matters; Board and its
• Sustainability and climate-related risks and opportunities; committees, and
• Corporate responsibility and reputation management; engaging with
• Social, community, and public policy strategies and initiatives; stockholders and
• Political issues, including political contributions and lobbying activities; and stakeholders
• Compliance with legal and regulatory requirements for the operations of the company. throughout the year.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report • 65
seeyolpmE
/
tnemeganaM
s'orelaV
Please see next page for
Board of Director names
and committees.
• Financial statements and public financial information integrity;
• Compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, with a focus on those with the potential
to impact its financial statements or accounting policies;
• Policies and guidelines concerning financial risk exposures and the steps management has
taken to monitor and control such exposures;
• Global compliance and ethics program, and annual compliance plan;
• Independent auditor and internal audit function; and
• Initiatives and strategies with respect to cybersecurity and information technology (IT) risks.
Board of Directors
Fred M. Diaz H. Paulett Marie A. Joe Gorder Kimberly S. Deborah P.
Retired President, Eberhart Ffolkes Executive Greene Majoras
CEO and Chair and CEO, Managing Partner, Chairman, Board Chair, CEO Retired Chief
Chairman of the HMS Ventures GenNx360 Capital Valero Energy and President, Legal Officer and
Board of Directors Partners; former Corporation Georgia Power Secretary, The
Committees:
of Mitsubishi CEO, TriMark USA, Company Procter & Gamble
Audit (Chair); and
Motors North LLC Company
Sustainability and Committees:
America, Inc.
Public Policy Committee: Nominating Committees:
Committee: Audit Nominating and Corporate Sustainability
and Corporate Governance and Public Policy
Governance (Chair); and (Chair); and
Sustainability and Nominating
Public Policy and Corporate
Governance
Director Skills and
ger
Experience
Diaz
Eberh art Ffolkes
G
order Greene
M
ajoras
M
ullins Profusek
Rig
gs
W
eisen b
ur
Wilkins
SKILLS AND EXPERIENCE
CEO/Leadership
Sustainability/
Climate
HSE
Human Capital
Management
Corporate
Governance
Cybersecurity/
IT
Finance and
Accounting
Global Business
Government, Legal,
Regulatory and
Compliance
Risk Management
Energy Industry
66
Governance
Eric D. Mullins Robert A. Lane Riggs Randall J. Rayford
Chairman and Profusek Chief Executive Weisenburger Wilkins, Jr.
CEO, Lime Rock Partner and Officer and Managing Retired CEO-
Resources Practice Leader, President, Member, Mile 26 Diversified
Committee: Audit Global Mergers and Valero Energy Capital LLC; former Businesses, AT&T
Acquisitions, Jones Corporation EVP and CFO, Inc.
Day; Valero Lead Omnicom Group
Committees:
Director Inc.
Human Resources
Committees: Committee: and Compensation
Human Resources Human Resources (Chair); and
and Compensation; and Compensation Sustainability and
and Sustainability Public Policy
and Public Policy
11 Directors:*
Board Oversight – HSE, Public Policy, Sustainability
6 New Directors Since 2016
and Climate
9 Independent Directors
Integrated and Multidisciplinary Approach to Oversight 7 Directors represent gender
or racial/ethnic diversity
The challenges and opportunities presented by sustainability and climate-related
matters are particularly broad-ranging, complex and interrelated, and as a result
4
often overlap across multiple areas of respective responsibility of each of our Board
36.4%
committees. In order to manage and oversee such matters, each of the Board’s
Women
committees assists the full Board with oversight of certain sustainability and climate- 7
related matters within its area of respective responsibility and expertise. Public policy,
sustainability and climate-related matters are a particular focus of the Sustainability Men Women
and Public Policy Committee, and such matters have been discussed at every meeting 1
the committee has ever held. The committee also receives, at least annually, a report 3
on Valero’s HSE efforts and climate lobbying and political activities. 36.4%
Racial/Ethnic
Tailored Structure and Codification of Duties Diversity
7
The structure and composition of the Sustainability and Public Policy Committee was
specifically tailored to enhance the Board’s oversight of HSE, public policy, sustainability White Black/African Hispanic/
American Latino
and climate-related matters, and its committee charter codifies its oversight and
responsibilities with respect to such matters. In order to provide knowledge and insight
3 4
from each of the Board’s committees, as well as its senior independent leadership, and
62.9 yrs
facilitate collaboration and coordination with the full Board and among the Board’s Average
other committees, the Sustainability and Public Policy Committee is comprised of five Age
independent members, consisting of Ms. Majoras (as the committee’s current chair), 4
the chairs of each of the Board’s other committees, and Valero’s Lead Director. We also 50s 60s 70s
encourage, but do not require, all directors to attend meetings of the Sustainability
and Public Policy Committee. This structure allows the HSE, public policy, sustainability 3 4
and climate-related matters discussed at Sustainability and Public Policy Committee 6 new
meetings to permeate all of the meetings and discussions of the Board and its other Directors
since 2016
committees and facilitates effective oversight of such matters.
2
2
At the corporate level, an executive officer who holds the positions of Senior Vice ≤4 5-9 10-12 ≥13
President, General Counsel and Secretary has oversight of certain functions actively Years Tenure
involved in climate-related management. This position reports directly to the CEO and * Age and tenure data as of 12/31/23.
Tenure is not rounded up.
provides updates to all levels of management, including the Board.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report • 67
Comprehensive Liquid Fuels Strategy
We are working to advance the future of energy with capital discipline, innovation and unmatched execution. We
support our commitment to stockholder returns with our comprehensive liquid fuels strategy that drives economic
growth projects and provides a viable path to reduce and displace GHG emissions.
Operations Capital Discipline
Unmatched Execution with a Proven History of Demonstrated Commitment to Stockholders
Operational Excellence • Disciplined capital allocation delivering peer-
• The lowest cash operating cost among peer leading free cash flow yield and returns to
group while maintaining top-quartile operating stockholders across margin cycles.
performance. • Delivered on our annual payout ratio
• Safe, reliable, environmentally responsible commitment every year under current
operations have driven higher profitability and management since 2014.
lower volatility through multiple commodity − Average payout ratio of 69% since 2014
cycles. (55% excluding 2020)
• Applying our liquid fuels manufacturing − Reduced our shares outstanding by over
expertise to optimize our integrated low-carbon 36% since 2014
fuels businesses. • 16% average annual Return on Invested
Capital (ROIC) since 2014.
Earnings Growth Executive Compensation
Growth Through Innovation Alignment of Executive Pay with Company
• Refining growth projects focused on operating Performance and Long-Term Stockholder Value
cost control, optimization and margin Creation
improvement. • Tight linkage of company performance and
• Leveraging our global liquid fuels platform to executive pay.
expand our long-term competitive advantage • Alignment of interests of executives and
with investments in economic low-carbon stockholders.
projects. • Risk management and adoption of best
• 25% after-tax IRR hurdle rate for growth practices in executive pay.
projects. • Balance of compensation over short- and
long-term periods.
• Retention of top executive talent.
Linkage of Executive Compensation to HSE, Sustainability and Climate
Annual Bonus Program - Valero’s annual bonus Long-Term Incentive (LTI) Program - A performance
program includes both HSE performance measures share component was added to include ties between
and ESG efforts and improvements. Since 2022, the executive compensation and our low-carbon fuels
Health, Safety and Environment sub-component strategy, including (i) progress towards the publicly
of the annual bonus program was improved by announced GHG emissions reduction/displacement
adjusting targets for certain metrics and through the targets, and (ii) investment of growth capital
implementation of a severity/volume enhancer on attributable to Valero into low-carbon initiatives.
the Environmental Scorecard Incidents metric.
See non-GAAP disclosures beginning on page 80.
68
Governance
Business Ethics and Compliance
Valero's Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is reviewed and approved In addition to our Chief
by the Board and Valero’s executive management team. Our Code Compliance Officer, Valero’s
provides guidance for our day-to-day work and the behavior expected Audit Committee oversees the
of us, as well as our legal and ethical responsibilities. company’s global compliance
function.
The Code focuses on the following commitments:
Commitment to Each Other
• Health, Safety and • Human Rights
Environment • Data Privacy
Our Ethics Helpline is
• Workplace Environment
a confidential external
• Community and
helpline operated by a
Environmental Justice
trained third party. It is
available toll-free, 24 hours
a day, seven days a week
Commitment to Business Partners and in local languages.
• Conduct Guidelines for Business Partners Reports are investigated
fairly and thoroughly.
• Gifts and Entertainment
Do you have a compliance
question? Contact the
Compliance Department at
Commitment to Shareholders
LegalCompliance@Valero.com
• Business Records and • Conflicts of Interest and or 210-345-5800
Internal Controls Corporate Opportunities
• Protecting Company • Insider Trading Do you wish to remain
Assets • Communications anonymous? Confidential
helpline available at
• Information Security
EthicsHelpline.Valero.com or
855-219-2495 within the U.S. &
Canada
Commitment to the Marketplace
If calling from elsewhere,
• Anti-Bribery and • International Trading
use the numbers listed on
Anti-Corruption • Anti-Boycott
EthicsHelpline.Valero.com.
• Anti-Money Laundering • Participating in Political
• Antitrust, Fair Dealing and Activities
Competition
More than 672,000 hours of employee training were conducted in 2023 on various
health, safety and environment, regulatory, legal and other compliance-related
matters, including conduct and ethics, use of ethics helpline, anti-bribery, data privacy,
human rights and information security.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report • 69
Supply Chain Management
Valero's Conduct Guidelines for Business Partners describes the standards and expectations for Business Partners -
namely suppliers, vendors, contractors, consultants, distributors, agents, representatives and any third parties or
individuals acting on behalf of the company. Applicable in all countries where Valero operates, the Conduct Guidelines
for Business Partners reflect Valero's expectations of high ethical standards and the unwavering requirement to act
with integrity, including in the following areas:
• Anti-Bribery/Anti-Corruption • Gifts and Entertainment • Insider Trading
• Antitrust/Fair Dealing and • Government Contracting and • International Trade Regulations
Competition Small Business Engagement
• Legal Compliance
• Conflicts of Interest • Health, Safety and Environment
• Corporate Recordkeeping • Human Rights
• Data Privacy • Information Security and
Intellectual Property
• Fair Employment Practices
Vetting of Suppliers - Valero engages
third-party companies to manage
supply chain and contractor risks.
All business partners are expected
to participate in the third-party
management systems and to
maintain a minimum grade based
on Valero's proprietary assessment
process and compliance with both
regulatory and Valero requirements.
Vendors undergo an initial screening
and are monitored on an ongoing
basis for risks related to health,
safety, environmental and quality
performance as well as supplier
selection, employee training and
qualifications, insurance coverage,
and financial strength and stability.
The systems also assess contractor
and supplier risk management
policies and practices regarding
human rights and the environment,
and verify certifications, such as ISO
14001. Additionally, audits may be
Valero and business partners working together on the SAF
conducted to ensure that suppliers
project in Port Arthur, Texas
uphold all standards listed in Valero’s
Conduct Guidelines for Business
Partners.
70
Governance
Awards
Governance
Institutional Investor Magazine - For the eighth consecutive
year, Institutional Investor Magazine named Valero among its Policies
“Most Honored Companies,”
• Code of Business Conduct
Institutional Investor
based on results across several
and Ethics
Magazine named Valero
categories of its 2024 All-America
Executive Team rankings. Out of among its "Most Honored • Conduct Guidelines for
over 1,400 companies receiving Companies" for 2024. Business Partners
votes across 44 sectors, less • Corporate Governance
than 10% earned the “Most Honored” distinction. The investment Guidelines
publication determined the rankings from votes of over 4,000
• Code of Ethics for Senior
investors and research analysts who evaluated companies and
Financial Officers
executives.
• Human Rights Policy
Valero placed Top 3 overall in the Integrated Oil sector for the
Statement
following:
• Stock Ownership and
• Best Company Board • Best IR Program
Retention Guidelines for
• Best CEO • Best ESG Program
Directors and Officers
• Best CFO
• Anti-Bribery and Anti-
Additionally, Valero received 1st place overall in the Integrated
Corruption Policy
Oil sector for the following:
• Environmental Justice Policy
• Best IR Professional • Best IR Team
Statement
S&P Platts - Valero earned • Health, Safety and
S&P Platts judges
the “Energy Transition Award Environmental Policy
highlighted Valero's SAF
Downstream & Chemicals" at the Statement
project that will give the
25th Annual S&P Platts Global
• Political Contributions,
Port Arthur plant the
Energy Awards, featuring finalists
Lobbying and Trade
from 32 countries across 21 optionality to upgrade
Associations Policy
categories. This marks the fourth approximately 50% of
year since 2019 that Valero has its current 470 million- • Related Party Transactions
won an award from S&P Global gallon renewable diesel Policy
and the third year since 2019 it annual production • UK Tax Policy
has won in the Downstream & capacity to SAF.
• Anti-Slavery and Human
Chemicals category.
Trafficking Policy Statement
Select comments from the judges about Valero included:
• Compensation Consultant
• “Valero roared back as a clean standout in the Disclosure Policy
downstream category."
• Executive Compensation
• “Valero possesses a broad spectrum of current
Clawback Policy
downstream successes. I trust them to be efficient."
• “They're the most focused company in this sector."
Visit our website at
www.valero.com > Investors >
ESG > Governance Documents.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report • 71
Stakeholder Engagement
Our engagement program offers proactive outreach and opportunities for stakeholders to communicate their
concerns and priorities to our management team. Additionally, the program undergoes a rigorous analysis, review
and assessment process to ensure continuous improvement.
Proactive
Ongoing engagement with stakeholders is important to us. For instance, throughout the year we
communicate with our stakeholders through a variety of means, including direct interface, investor
presentations, ESG presentations, our website, community outreach and the publications and
reports we issue.
Consistent Dialogue
As part of our engagement efforts, our senior management team reaches out to our stakeholders
for dialogue concerning their priorities – which may include our corporate strategy, environmental
initiatives, financial performance, capital allocation, sustainability, climate-related risks and
opportunities facing Valero, GHG emissions, human capital management, executive compensation
and/or corporate governance, among other relevant matters. We value our stakeholders’ views
and input.
Process: Review, Plan, Engage, and Analyze and Respond
Our engagement process follows a “review, plan, engage, and analyze and respond” cycle to build
relationships and create meaningful interactions. Our engagements with stakeholders have been
constructive and have provided management and the Board with insights on issues and initiatives
that are important to our stakeholders. Additionally, we initiate formal outreach efforts throughout
the year.
Assessment
Our engagement process is adjusted based on needs and business strategy. After each
engagement opportunity, we assess the input received and share it with our management team
and the Board, as appropriate. This constant communication with the management team and
the Board allows us to develop policies, practices and disclosures to meet the expectations of our
stakeholders.
Our Responsiveness to Engagement
As part of our engagement efforts, we proactively offer dialogue to stockholders and stakeholders regarding
different matters, such as executive compensation, ESG, sustainability, proxy proposals, climate-related risks
and opportunities, GHG emissions targets, environmental justice and community engagement efforts, human
capital management, and political and lobbying activities. The robust ESG/compensation engagement efforts we
undertook over the course of 2023 and into 2024 consisted of the following:
72
GGoovveerrnnaannccee
• Offering dialogue to our 100 largest
Political Engagement
stockholders.
Valero believes that constructive participation
• Engaging with stockholders that held
in the political process is an important means
approximately 50% of our outstanding shares
of enhancing stockholder value and promoting
of common stock.63
good corporate citizenship.
• Holding at least 67 different meetings with
stockholders and proxy advisory firms, many of Board Oversight — The CEO and the General
which included the participation of members Counsel review and approve recommendations
of our senior leadership and/or our Board. by Valero’s government affairs team on
political contributions and lobbying activities.
In response to stockholder and stakeholder
Additionally, the Sustainability and Public Policy
feedback, the following disclosures and/or
Committee is responsible for assisting the Board
changes were recently made:
with oversight of Valero's political contributions
• Relative TSR performance target for Valero’s and lobbying activities and receives, at
performance shares set above the median least once annually, a formal report from
of the peer group for grants of performance management on these activities.
shares.
Policy Advocacy — As part of our engagement,
• A cap on overall performance share payouts
we may advocate directly or with trade
at 100% of target, when Valero’s TSR over the
associations on issues that affect our business
performance period is negative.
and the energy industry. Our trade association
• Stock Ownership and Retention Guidelines were participation focuses on being an active
enhanced by increasing the required value member of business communities where
of Valero Common Stock owned by senior we work and live, learning and sharing best
executives as a multiple of salary by 50% above practices from safety and environmental to
previous levels.64 labor and technologies, as well as promoting
• Use of Product GHG emissions Intensity dialogue and advocacy for positions that are in
disclosure. the best interest of our business.
• Value chain analysis. Climate-lobbying Alignment Analysis —
• TCFD Report (IEA Net Zero by 2050). We conducted a review of climate lobbying
activities and concluded that certain trade
• 2023 Environmental Justice Audit Report and
associations with lobbying activities were
Racial Equity Assessment.
substantially aligned with, or were in the process
• Independent third-party limited assurance of
of aligning with, Valero’s vision of providing
company-wide GHG emissions (Scopes 1 and
affordable transportation fuels, while reducing
2), company-wide life cycle GHG emissions
GHG emissions.
displacements from low-carbon fuels,
Political Participation — Valero complies
company-wide Use of Product GHG emissions
with all applicable laws and regulations when
Intensity disclosures and the validation of our
considering participation in the political process
2035 GHG emissions target.
with corporate contributions.
• 2050 GHG reduction/displacement ambition
covering Scopes 1, 2, 3, and 4. Our political participation webpage provides
comprehensive and updated political
• Revised Executive Compensation Clawback
disclosures:
Policy that goes beyond the minimum
requirements of the SEC and the New York www.valero.com > Investors > ESG > Political
Stock Exchange. Engagement > Political Participation.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report • 73
Cybersecurity
We take an enterprise approach to information security
Typically, we:
risk management and governance. Our information
security program and framework comprise processes, 1 Perform periodic tabletop exercises with a
policies, practices, systems and technologies that are company-wide cross-functional team that
designed to identify, assess, prioritize, manage and is facilitated by a third-party expert and
monitor risks to our information systems, including is intended to simulate a real-life security
risks from cybersecurity threats and events and incident.
risks associated with the use of third-party service
Conduct penetration testing as needed and
providers. 2
annually conduct Payment Card Industry Data
Our established recovery approach is designed Security Standard testing and firewall reviews,
to provide for the ready availability and use of our and have periodically engaged a third-party
business-critical processes in the event of any expert to help therewith.
downtime, disaster or outages. We also seek to identify
and mitigate the risks associated with the use of 3 Hold annual cybersecurity awareness
third-party service providers through the review of trainings.
their security programs prior to our engagement.
Periodically engage a third-party expert to
4
Additionally, our control environment and internal
conduct a review of our information security
audit process bring a systematic, disciplined approach
framework, which helps to identify existing and
to evaluate our risk management, control and
emerging risks, and mitigate against such risks.
governance processes concerning cybersecurity and
our information security framework.
We have a cybersecurity Incident Response Plan These internal efforts and external third-party reviews
(IRP) that sets forth a process to obtain information, also support our ability to regularly assess our
coordinate activities, assess results and communicate information security program and framework against
applicable developments to our employees, law emerging risks, market and industry developments
enforcement, other external parties and agencies and provide opportunities to make adjustments or
and our Board. The IRP includes the following major enhancements when deemed prudent or necessary.
components: preparation, detection and analysis,
containment, eradication, notification, recovery, To date, there have been no cybersecurity
reporting and lessons learned. Specific incident incidents that have materially affected us,
response playbooks have also been prepared for data or that are reasonably likely to materially
breaches, malware, unauthorized remote access and affect us, including our business strategy,
ransomware, which include applicable legal protocols.
financial condition or results of operations.
We have also retained certain third-party experts to
assist us with various aspects of incident assessment
and response in the event those services become
necessary or useful.
7744
Governance
Our Board’s Role in Management’s Role in Assessment and
Cybersecurity Oversight Management of Material Risks from
Cybersecurity Threats
Oversight of risk management,
including with respect to risks
We have an Information Security Committee (Infosec Committee)
from cybersecurity threats, is
consisting of refining, renewable diesel, ethanol, logistics and
the responsibility of our Board,
information services personnel that meets weekly to evaluate third-
which exercises its oversight
party exchange of data and collaborate on strategy for dealing with
responsibilities both directly and
information security risks and other related matters. The Infosec
through its committees. The Audit
Committee reports to our Information Security Oversight Committee
Committee of our Board has formal
(Infosec Oversight Committee) and our Executive Steering Committee
oversight responsibilities in its
on cybersecurity (Executive Steering Committee). Our Infosec Oversight
charter concerning initiatives and
Committee consists of information services, refining and internal audit
strategies respecting cybersecurity
personnel and meets quarterly to discuss network threats and the
and information technology risks.
overall security landscape. Our Executive Steering Committee consists
At least once annually, the heads of
of management within our information services, internal audit, refining,
our information services and internal
renewable diesel, ethanol, legal and logistics teams, and meets twice
audit teams provide a report to the
per year to review and discuss information security metrics and results
Audit Committee on cybersecurity
of security assessments, among other items. Key members of the
and information technology risks,
Infosec Oversight Committee and the Executive Steering Committee
as well as our information security
provide a report to the Audit Committee of the Board as discussed
operations, structure, framework,
above.
various cybersecurity and information
Our information services team is led by
technology metrics, our cybersecurity Collectively, the
and information security management members of our our Vice President Information Services
and improvement efforts, future Infosec Committee, & Technology, who also chairs the
projects, and our governance and Infosec Oversight Infosec Oversight Committee, and has
assessments related to cybersecurity Committee and approximately 25 years of experience in
and information technology. The Executive Steering the information technology industry.
chair of the Audit Committee reports Committee have
to the Board a summary of the decades of experience within the information technology and/or
information presented by the heads of cybersecurity areas. On a monthly basis, our Vice President, Information
our information services and internal Services & Technology provides executive management with an
audit teams during their cybersecurity Information Security Scorecard, which includes any cybersecurity
update. Periodically, the Board also events that have occurred. If a cybersecurity incident is declared
receives reports on such matters under the IRP, we will evaluate whether such incident might have
directly. As noted above, the IRP also a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition,
contains notification procedures to the results of operations or reputation, among other considerations, and
Board. communicate that discussion to executive management, who will
then determine if escalation to the Board is warranted and if further
disclosure is required to the SEC and/or other government agencies.
EEnnvviirroonnmmeennttaall,, SSoocciiaall aanndd GGoovveerrnnaannccee RReeppoorrtt •• 7755
SASB Report
This report aligns our performance data with the recommendations of the
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) framework in the Oil & Gas –
Refining & Marketing industry standard.
Topic Accounting Metric Code 2023 Valero
Greenhouse Gross global Scope 1 emissions, percentage covered EM-RM-110a.1 24.9 million metric tons CO2e
Gas Emissions under emissions-limiting regulations
100%
Discussion of long-term and short-term strategy EM-RM-110a.2 Valero's performance exceeded the company's short-term target
or plan to manage Scope 1 emissions, emissions to reduce/displace the equivalent to 63% of the tonnage from its
reduction targets, and an analysis of performance global refinery GHG emissions (Scopes 1 and 2) by 2025. Valero is on
against those targets track to reduce/displace the equivalent to 100% of the tonnage from
its global refinery GHG emissions (Scopes 1 and 2) by 2035 through
Board-approved projects and CCS projects under development.
Air Quality Air emissions of the following pollutants: (1) NOx EM-RM-120a.1 (1) NOx: 9,100 metric tons; (2) SOx: 7,400 metric tons; (3) PM10: 2,200
(excluding N2O), (2) SOx, (3) particulate matter (PM10), metric tons; (4) H2S: De minimis; (5) VOCs: 7,000 metric tons
(4) H2S, and (5) volatile organic compounds (VOCs)
Number of refineries in or near areas of dense EM-RM-120a.2 11
population
Water (1) Total fresh water withdrawn, (2) percentage EM-RM-140a.1 (1) 187 million m3; (2) 1,671%; (3) 11.5%
Management recycled, (3) percentage in regions with High or
Extremely High Baseline Water Stress
Number of incidents of non-compliance associated EM-RM-140a.2 2023 Annual Report on Form 10-K, Item 3 (page 35)
with water quality permits, standards, and regulations
Hazardous (1) Amount of hazardous waste generated, EM-RM-150a.1 (1) 30,300 metric tons; (2) hazardous waste recycling without
Materials (2) percentage recycled incineration: 35.8%; hazardous waste recycling with incineration:
49.4%
Management
(1) Number of underground storage tanks (USTs), EM-RM-150a.2 (1) 6; (2) 0; (3) 0
(2) number of UST releases requiring cleanup, and
(3) percentage in states with UST financial assurance
funds
Workforce (1) Total recordable incident rate (TRIR), (2) fatality EM-RM-320a.1 (1)(a) Global refining TRIR Employee: 0.40; (1)(b) Global refining TRIR
Health & Safety rate, and (3) near miss frequency rate (NMFR) for (a) Contractor: 0.24; (2)(a) Global refining Fatality Rate Employee: 0.00;
full-time employees and (b) contract employees (2)(b) Global refining Fatality Rate Contractor: 0.00
Discussion of management systems used to integrate EM-RM-320a.2 ESG Report (pages 32 to 41)
a culture of safety
Management Discussion of corporate positions related to EM-RM-530a.1 2022 TCFD Report
of the Legal government regulations and/or policy proposals that 2023 Annual Report on Form 10-K, Item 1A (pages 18-32)
address environmental and social factors affecting
& Regulatory
the industry
Environment
Critical Process Safety Event (PSE) rates for Loss of Primary EM-RM-540a.1 Tier 1 process safety: 0.05
Incident Risk Containment (LOPC) of greater consequence (Tier 1) Tier 2 process safety: 0.20
and lesser consequence (Tier 2)
Management
Activity Metric Refining throughput of crude oil and other feedstocks EM-RM-000.A 1,087.33 million barrels of oil equivalent (BOE)
Refining operating capacity EM-RM-000.B 3.16 million barrels per calendar day (MBPD)
7766
Due to lack of data, relevancy in our business or competitive nature, as • Copies of independent limited assurance verifications can be found
applicable, we have opted for not disclosing the following topics: our website at www.valero.com > Investors > ESG > Other Reports. All
calculations were found to be science-based and in conformity with
• Product Specifications & Clean Fuel Blends, Percentage of acceptable engineering practices. Limited assurance verifications
Renewable Volume Obligation (RVO) met through: (1) production include (1) company-wide 2023 GHG emissions (Scopes 1 and 2),
of renewable fuels and (2) purchase of “separated” renewable including refining, renewable diesel, and ethanol; (2) company-wide
identification numbers (RIN), code EM-RM-410a.1. 2023 GHG emissions reductions achieved with our renewable diesel
• Product Specification & Clean Fuel Blends, total addressable and ethanol production, as well as the blending of and credits from
market and share of market for advanced biofuels and associated low-carbon fuels; (3) company-wide 2023 GHG emissions intensity
infrastructure, code EM-RM-410a.2. of the use of our products per barrel and per unit of energy; and (4)
the validation of our 2035 GHG emissions target.
• Pricing Integrity & Transparency, code EM-RM-520a.1.
• Critical Incident Risk Management - Challenges to Safety Systems Air Quality
indicator rate (Tier 3), code EM-RM-540a.2. EM-RM-120a.2: global refineries located in or near areas of dense
population, which are defined as urbanized areas with a population
• Critical Incident Risk Management - Discussion of measurement greater than 50,000.
of Operating Discipline and Management System Performance
through Tier 4 Indicators, code EM-RM-540a.3.
Water Management
EM-RM-140a.1: (1) Total fresh water withdrawn by refining operations
Greenhouse Gas Emissions
(fresh water with less than 1000 parts per million of dissolved solids); (2)
EM-RM-110a.1: water recycled divided by the volume of fresh water withdrawn. Water
• Valero's refining reportable segment (see our 2023 Annual Report on reused multiple times is counted as recycled each time it is recycled
Form 10-K, pages 6-10), includes the operations of our 15 petroleum and reused; (3) fresh water withdrawn in locations with high (40-80%)
refineries, the associated activities to market our refined petroleum or extremely high (>80%) baseline water stress as a percentage of the
products and the logistics assets that support those operations total refinery fresh water withdrawn.
(refining logistics assets). The methodology we use to calculate and
disclose direct GHG emissions (also known as Scope 1) is disclosed in EM-RM-140a.2: In measuring the number of instances of non-
the Methodology section of this report. compliance in any calendar year that resulted in formal enforcement
actions we look to the views of the SEC and define such number to be
• In 2023, the direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) from the logistics assets the amount of environmental proceedings which occurred during that
that support the refining segment are de minimis and account for calendar year that are (i) based on non-compliance with water quality
less than 0.3% of the refining reportable segment. permits, standards or regulations and (ii) required to be disclosed
pursuant to Regulation S-K 103 (applying the lowest numerical
• In 2023, the direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) related to our ethanol disclosure threshold in effect at the time). Please see Valero’s Quarterly
and renewable diesel segments of 2.3 million metric tons CO2e Reports on Form 10-Q for the fiscal year 2023 and 2023 Annual Report
are excluded in this disclosure, as they are not applicable to the on Form 10-K.
SASB framework in the Oil & Gas - Refining and Marketing industry
standard.
Hazardous Materials Management
• Percentage of global refinery direct GHG emissions (refinery Scope EM-RM-150a.1:
1) covered under an emission limiting regulation that is intended to
• Hazardous waste amounts based on calculated dehydrated
directly reduce GHG emissions, including the California Cap-and-
hazardous constituents from wastewater disposed in underground
Trade Program, the United Kingdom Emissions Trading Scheme,
injection controls at our McKee refinery.
Quebec Cap-and-Trade System, and the U.S. federal New Source
Review (NSR) permitting program for greenhouse gases. EM-RM-150a.2:
• Valero currently has 6 operating refining USTs none of which had any
EM-RM-110a.2: known releases or reimbursement fund claims during the reporting
• Base year (2011) includes: period. Valero also owns 20 retail USTs that are independently
operated by third parties. While Valero does not operate those
• Base year refining Scope 1 emissions includes direct emissions USTs, Valero is not aware of any releases or reimbursement fund
from the 15 refineries in our current portfolio. Sales, acquisitions claims related to these USTs during the reporting period. Valero
and closures were accounted for following SASB guidelines in the also brands independently owned and operated service stations
calculation. that may have USTs but Valero is not involved in the operation or
• Base year excludes Scopes 1 and 2 GHG emissions related to the remediation obligations of such USTs. Finally, Valero has, in certain
ethanol and renewable diesel segments. circumstances, assumed or retained liability for legacy service
stations sites, which may have remedial obligations but any related
• The methodology we use to calculate Base year refining Scopes USTs remaining at those sites are owned and operated by a third
1 and 2 GHG emissions are disclosed in the GHG Emissions party who is responsible for their operation.
Methodologies (page 21) of this ESG Report
• Actual Scopes 1 and 2 GHG emissions: Workforce Health & Safety
EM-RM-320a.1: (1)(a)/(b) global refining employee and contractor total
• The methodology we use to calculate and disclose refining recordable incident rate (TRIR), which includes recordable injuries per
Scopes 1 and 2 GHG emissions are disclosed in the GHG Emissions 200,000 working hours, as defined by the U.S. Department of Labor’s
Methodologies (page 21) of this ESG Report. We include the Occupational Safety and Health Administration; (2)(a)/(b) fatality
market-based approach when disclosing Scope 2 GHG emissions rate for work-related fatalities for global refining employees and
for actual purposes. contractors; (3) NMFR data is not available.
• Expected Scopes 1 and 2 GHG emissions:
Critical Incident Risk Management
• Refining Scopes 1 and 2 GHG emissions in future years and EM-RM-540a.1: global refining Tier 1 process safety event (PSE) rates
expected reductions against the base year are estimated using and Tier 2 PSE rates as defined by the API RP-754.
a combination of measured and estimated emissions data,
including the anticipated GHG emissions reductions derived from
operational improvements (Scope 1) and energy suppliers (Scope Activity Metric
2). EM-RM-000.A and EM-RM-000.B: See Valero’s 2023 Annual Report on
Form 10-K, page 50 and page 7, respectively.
• Target years 2025 and 2035 and Performance to Date:
• Valero's performance exceeded the company's short-term target Footnotes for SASB Data
to reduce/displace the equivalent to 63% of the tonnage from its (a) The performance data presented is based on the company’s
global refinery GHG emissions (Scopes 1 and 2) by 2025. Valero is interpretation and judgment of the SASB framework in the Oil & Gas
on track to reduce/displace the equivalent to 100% of the tonnage – Refining & Marketing industry standard. References to specific SASB
from its global refinery GHG emissions (Scopes 1 and 2) by 2035 Code numbers do not indicate the application of any or all definitions,
through Board-approved projects and CCS projects under metrics, measurements, standards or approaches set forth in the SASB
development. framework.
• The initiatives included in the 2035 target are: (1) the absolute (b) SASB standards are not intended to, and cannot, replace any legal
expected reduction of refining Scopes 1 and 2 GHG emissions or regulatory requirements that may be applicable to the company’s
(against 2011 base year); (2) the displacements resulting from the operations.
substitution of petroleum gasoline, diesel, naphtha and jet fuel
with the production of, blending of and credits from low-carbon
fuels. The calculation of displacements is disclosed in the GHG
Emissions Methodologies (page 21) of this ESG Report; and (3)
the expected reductions of carbon emissions using CCS projects
under development
EEnnvviirroonnmmeennttaall,, SSoocciiaall aanndd GGoovveerrnnaannccee RReeppoorrtt •• 7777
Notes
1 For details on Valero's 2025 and 2035 GHG emissions targets see 12 EV charging in cold temperatures could pose challenges
pages 19, 21 and 77 (SASB Code EM-RM-110a.2). for drivers, Idaho National Laboratory, June 2020:https://inl.
govintegrated-energy/electric-vehicles/.
2 Low-carbon fuels reduce life cycle GHG emissions. For renewable
diesel, life cycle GHG emissions reductions depend on the life 13 ASTM D7566 -21, Standard Specification for Aviation Turbine
cycle analysis methodology or pathway used, carbon intensity of Fuel Containing Synthesized Hydrocarbons, approved July 1, 2021,
the feedstocks, and energy intensity in the supply chain, such as published July 2021.
feedstock gathering mileage or distribution mileage of finished
product. Renewable diesel's life cycle analysis carbon intensity was 14 EV's average carbon intensity in the U.S. is calculated using the
calculated using methodologies approved by the jurisdictions where U.S. Department of Energy, Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable
renewable diesel was sold and verified by third parties. Our renewable Energy, Vehicle Technologies Office, FOTW #1208, Oct 18, 2021; and
diesel can result in up to 80% lower life cycle GHG emissions, other EV's life cycle analysis calculations conducted internally by
compared with traditional diesel. In the case of corn ethanol, life Valero.
cycle GHG emissions reductions could be impacted by the type of
15 Is it starch or cellulose? National Renewable Energy Laboratory
feedstocks used, the energy intensity in the supply chain or whether
(NREL) offers answers that could unlock incentives for making
carbon capture and storage is utilized. Ethanol's life cycle analysis
cellulosic ethanol (June 16, 2021) https://www.energy.gov/eere/
carbon intensity was sourced from the Argonne National Laboratory
bioenergy/articles/it-starch-or-cellulose-nrel-offers-answers-could-
GREET model. When compared with the benchmark carbon intensity
unlock-incentives-making.
of gasoline presented in this model, our ethanol can result in at least
30% lower life cycle GHG emissions. 16 See https://www.darlingii.com/media for details on restaurants
that provide used cooking oil.
3 Free cash flow is defined as net cash provided by operating
activities less capital expenditures of VLO and DGD, deferred 17 California Air Resources Board, September 28, 2023, Then vs Now –
turnaround and catalyst cost expenditures, investments in joint Fossil Fuels Used in CA, slide 20. https://ww2.arb.ca.gov/sites/default/
ventures, and changes in current assets and liabilities. Average free files/barcu/board/books/2023/092823/23-8-1pres.pdf.
cash flow reflects 2012 through the most recent annual filing. EBITDA
18 See LCFS Pathway Certified Carbon Intensities: https://ww2.arb.
is net income (loss) before depreciation and amortization expense,
ca.gov/resources/documents/lcfs-pathway-certified-carbon-
“interest and debt expense, net of capitalized interest”, income tax
intensities.
expense (benefit), and income (loss) from discontinued operations.
Refining peer group includes PSX, MPC, DINO, and PBF. See page 80 for 19 Source: U.S. Department of Energy, agency websites, industry
non-GAAP disclosures. consultants and Valero estimates.
4 Third-party scenarios and other third-party reports or data 20 EPA Summary table of Lifecycle Greenhouse Gas Emissions
discussed in these reports reflect the modeling, beliefs, assumptions for Select Pathways (pdf), https://www.epa.gov/sites/default/
and outputs of their respective authors, not Valero, and their use, files/2016-07/documents/select-ghg-results-table-v1.pdf
reference to, or inclusion herein is not an endorsement by Valero of
their underlying assumptions, likelihood or probability. Any reference 21 See Detailed Analysis for Indirect Land Use Change from the 2015
to Valero's support of, alignment with, work with, or collaboration with LCFS re-adoption, p. I-25. https://ww2.arb.ca.gov/sites/default/files/
a third-party organization within this document does not constitute classic/fuels/lcfs/iluc_assessment/iluc_analysis.pdf
or imply an endorsement by Valero of any or all of the positions or
22 EPA “Summary Lifecycle Analysis Greenhouse Gas Results for the
activities of such organization.
U.S. Renewable Fuels Standard Program” (May 2023), disaggregated
5 Intergovernmental Panel of Climate Change (IPCC) (2022), Climate GHG emissions for corn starch ethanol (dry mill, natural gas, 2022
Change 2022: Mitigation of Climate Change. Contribution of Working average) and soybean oil transesterified biodiesel.
Group III to the Sixth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental
23 CARB “Current Fuel Pathways” (July 2, 2024), average of current
Panel on Climate Change [P.R. Shukla, J. Skea, R. Slade, A. Al
(non-retired) certified CIs for corn ethanol and soybean oil renewable
Khourdajie, R. van Diemen, D. McCollum, M. Pathak, S. Some, P. Vyas,
diesel.
R. Fradera, M. Belkacemi, A. Hasija, G. Lisboa, S. Luz, J. Malley, (eds.)].
Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, UK and New York, NY, USA. doi: 24 ECCC “Clean Fuel Regulations – Credit Market Data Report” (June
10.1017/9781009157926. 2024), average approved CIs for ethanol and hydrogenation-derived
renewable diesel.
6 International Energy Agency (IEA) (2022), World Energy Outlook
2022, IEA, Paris https://www.iea.org/reports/world-energy- 25 ECCC “Fuel Life Cycle Assessment Model Methodology” (June
outlook-2022, License: CC BY 4.0 (report); CC BY NC SA 4.0 (Annex A). 2024). Indirect land use change is “excluded from the Model Database
7 The COP28 agreement, available at: https://unfccc.int/sites/ due to … [its] negligible contribution or limitations such as lack of data,
default/files/resource/cma2023_L17_adv.pdf at paragraph 28. methods or high uncertainty.” (Section 2.3.1)
8 See https://unric.org/en/climate-highlights-of-cop28/ and https:// 26 Argonne National Laboratory “Development of R&D GREET 2023
unfccc.int/sites/default/files/resource/cma2023_L17_adv.pdf at Rev1 to Estimate Greenhouse Gas Emissions of Sustainable Aviation
paragraph 29. Fuels for 40B Provision of the Inflation Reduction Act” (April 2024), LCA
results using default parameters for corn ATJ-E and soybean HEFA
9 The U.S. Department of Energy’s Pathways to Commercial Liftoff:
(Table 1).
Chemicals & Refining, available at: https://liftoff.energy.gov/wp-
content/uploads/2023/09/20230921-Pathways-to-Commercial- 27 Treasury Notice 2024-37, “Sustainable Aviation Fuel Credit;
Liftoff-Chemicals-Refining.pdf. Lifecycle Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reduction Percentage and
Certification of Requirements Related to the Clean Air Act; Climate
10 Consumer Reports, How Much Do Cold Temperatures Affect
Smart Agriculture; Safe Harbors.” Safe harbor for Climate Smart
an Electric Vehicle’s Driving Range? (January 2024): https://www.
Agriculture (CSA) CI reduction of 10 gCO2e/MJ when using CSA corn
consumerreports.org/cars/hybrids-evs/how-much-do-cold-
feedstock and 5 gCO2e/MJ when using CSA soybean feedstock
temperatures-affect-an-evs-driving-range-a5751769461/.
(Section 4).
11 Consumer Reports, CR Tests Show Electric Car Range Can Fall
28 ICAO “CORSIA Default Life Cycle Emissions Values for CORSIA
Far Short of Claims, January 2024: https://www.consumerreports.
Eligible Fuels” (June 2022), default pathways for ETJ-SAF produced
org/cars/hybrids-evs/how-temperature-affects-electric-vehicle-
from U.S. corn grain and HEFA-SAF produced from U.S. soybean oil.
range-a4873569949/.
7788
29 Heller, Marc, “Fight grows over converting farmland to solar fields,” 42 See GHG Emissions Methodologies on page 21 for details on all
GREENWIRE, June 3, 2024. calculations featured in this section.
30 Sources include country or entity regulatory websites. In the 43 Our current refining portfolio was consolidated in 2011. Energy
case of CORSIA, SAF is not mandated under CORSIA, but it reduces an intensity increased in 2020 due to demand-related throughput
airline’s offset obligation. reductions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic.
31 Meigs, James B. (May 2024). Biden’s Electric-Vehicle Hustle. 44 Based on EPA's WaterSense average U.S. household consumption.
Commentary. https://www.commentary.org/articles/james-meigs/ 45 United States Department of Labor’s Occupational Safety and
bidens-electric-vehicle-hustle/. Health Administration (OSHA).
32 McKinsey & Company, MCFM Mobility Consumer Insights, Annual 46 Cal/OSHA is a program administered by the State of California
MCFM Mobility Consumer Survey 2024, dated February 2024, global N Department of Industrial Relations.
= 36,954 (“MCFM Mobility Consumer Insights”).
47 Refining industry employees (U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, year
33 National Renewable Energy Laboratory, June 2023, "The 2030 2022).
National Charging Network: Estimating U.S. Light-Duty Demand for
48 AFFFs stands for aqueous film-forming foams, which contain per-
Electric Vehicle Charging Infrastructure."
and poly-fluoroalkyl substances (PFAS).
34 U.S. Light-Duty Vehicle (LDV) Life Cycle Emissions study conducted
49 Global refining Tier 1 process safety event (PSE) rate and Tier 2 PSE
by Southwest Research Institute – “Life Cycle Analysis Report” (2022)
rate as defined within API Recommended Practice 754.
was based on simulations performed using the GREET life cycle
analysis tool. LDV with 12-year life and 160,000 miles travel, renewable 50 API, the governing body for industry PS metrics, now reports
diesel GHG emissions are based on 100% waste oil based renewable industry-wide PSE data on five-year averages.
diesel blend, electricity based on 2019 EIA average mix, and no
51 The Environmental Justice Audit Report can be found on our website
battery replacement for 300 mile range electric vehicle. Vehicle
at Valero.com > Investors > ESG > Reports and Presentations.
class mix of 30% sedans, 20% crossovers, and 50% pickup/SUV trucks.
Embedded GHG emissions captures the GHG emissions involved in 52 Includes funds donated by Valero and the Valero Energy
the manufacturing, assembly, and production of the vehicle as well as Foundation.
maintenance items over the lifetime of the vehicle i.e. battery, fluids,
ADR (assembly, disposal, and recycling), and components. U.S. Heavy- 53 See 2023 Valero Form 10-K, page 14.
Duty Long-Haul Vehicle (HDV) Life Cycle Emissions study conducted 54 See 2024 Valero Proxy Statement, page 85.
by Southwest Research Institute – “Life Cycle Analysis Report” (2022).
Class 8 heavy-duty truck with a 1,000,000-mile (~15 years) lifetime, 55 Responses were given by employees in the Annual Benefits
electric truck with a 500-mile battery range, electricity based on 2019 Statement Survey (2022).
EIA average mix, one battery replacement, and diesel engine running 56 Unless otherwise noted, workforce data reflects Valero’s global
on 100% waste oil based renewable diesel. Embedded GHG emissions population as of December 31, 2023.
capture the GHG emissions involved in the manufacturing, assembly
and production of the vehicle as well as maintenance items over the 57 Average includes salary, health and wellness benefits, financial
lifetime of the vehicle such as battery, fluids, ADR (assembly, disposal benefits and other incentives.
and recycling), and components.
58 Valero's total investment in global employees includes direct
35 Jenkins Jr., H., July 18, 2023, Of EVs and Heat Waves. The Wall Street compensation; bonus payments; incentive stock awards; employee
Journal. benefits, including retirement, medical and welfare benefits as well as
other employment-related investments and expenses.
36 IEA (2024), Global Critical Minerals Outlook 2024, pages 6, 7, 30, IEA,
Paris. 59 McAllister, K., Rattner, N., Francis, T., June 29, 2023, Want a job that
pays $200,000? See how much the biggest companies pay. The Wall
Notes: Li = lithium; Ni = nickel; Co = cobalt; Gr = graphite; DRC = Street Journal.
Democratic Republic of the Congo. Geographical breakdown refers
to the country where the production occurs. Mining is based on 60 Responses were given in the Employee Wellness Center Survey
production data. Material processing is based on refining production (Field) (2023).
data. Cell component production is based on cathode and anode
61 Responses were given in the Valero Fitness Center Survey (2023).
material production capacity data. Battery cells are based on
battery cell production capacity data. EVs is based on electric cars 62 Includes training related to regulatory compliance, leadership
production data. For all minerals mining and refining shows total and other topics.
production not only that used in EVs. Graphite refining refers to
63 Measurements reflect our reasonable determinations based
spherical graphite production only.
on available data and information regarding the composition and
IEA analysis based on EV Volumes; Benchmark Mineral Intelligence; holdings of our stockholders over the course of our engagement
BloombergNEF. efforts in 2023.
37 Business & Human Rights Resource Centre (July 2023), Unpacking 64 See the Corporate Governance Guidelines in our website for more
clean energy: Human rights impacts of Chinese overseas investment details on our Stock Ownership and Retention Guidelines.
in transition minerals.
38 IEA (2021), The Role of Critical Minerals in Clean Energy Transitions,
IEA, Paris.
39 See https://www.thetwohundred.org/. The Two Hundred is a civil
rights organization committed to addressing the racial wealth gap in
California through home ownership and home building.
40 See MCFM Mobility Consumer Insights.
41 Pew Research Center, June 2023, "Majorities of Americans Prioritize
Renewable Energy, Back Steps to Address Climate Change."
EEnnvviirroonnmmeennttaall,, SSoocciiaall aanndd GGoovveerrnnaannccee RReeppoorrtt •• 7799
Non-GAAP Disclosures
Capital Investments Attributable to Valero
Reconciliation of Capital Investments to Year ended
Valero defines capital investments attributable to Valero as Capital Investments Attributable to Valero (in December 31,
all capital expenditures, deferred turnaround and catalyst millions) 2023
cost expenditures, and investments in non-consolidated joint
Capital expenditures (excluding VIEs) $ 665
ventures presented in Valero's consolidated statements of
cash flows excluding the portion of DGD’s capital investments Capital expenditures of VIEs:
attributable to the other joint venture member and all of the
capital expenditures of other variable interest entities (VIEs). DGD 235
Capital investments attributable to Valero are allocated
Other VIEs 11
between sustaining capital expenditures attributable to Valero
and growth capital investments attributable to Valero. Deferred turnaround and catalyst cost
946
expenditures (excluding VIEs)
DGD’s members use DGD’s operating cash flow (excluding
changes in its current assets and current liabilities) to fund Deferred turnaround and catalyst cost
59
its capital investments rather than distribute all of that expenditures of DGD
cash to themselves. Because DGD’s operating cash flow is
Total capital investments 1,916
effectively attributable to each member, only 50 percent of
DGD’s capital investments should be attributed to Valero's net Adjustments:
share of capital investments. Valero also excludes the capital
DGD's capital investments attributable to
expenditures of other consolidated VIEs because Valero does (147)
the other joint venture member
not operate those VIEs. Valero believes that capital investments
attributable to Valero is an important measure because it Capital expenditures of other VIEs (11)
more accurately reflects capital investments of Valero.
Capital investments attributable to Valero $ 1,758
Free Cash Flow
Valero defines free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures of Valero and DGD, deferred
turnaround and catalyst cost expenditures, investments in joint ventures, and changes in current assets and liabilities. Valero
believes that the presentation of free cash flow provides useful information to investors in assessing Valero’s ability to cover
ongoing costs and Valero’s ability to generate cash returns to stockholders. The GAAP measures most directly comparable to
free cash flow are net cash provided by operating activities and net cash used in investing activities.
Reconciliation of Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities under GAAP to Free Cash Flow (in millions)
Year ended December 31,
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Net cash provided by
$5,270 $5,564 $4,241 $5,611 $4,820 $5,482 $4,371 $5,531 $948 $5,859 $12,574 $9,229
operating activities
Less: Capital expenditures of
2,931 2,121 2,153 1,618 1,278 1,353 1,628 1,769 1,537 1,555 1,641 900
Valero and DGD
Less: Deferred turnaround and
479 634 649 673 718 523 915 780 648 793 1,056 1,005
catalyst cost expenditures
Less: Investments in joint
57 76 14 141 4 406 181 164 54 9 1 -
ventures
Less: Changes in current assets
(302) 922 (1,810) (1,306) 976 1,289 (1,297) 294 (345) 2,225 (1,626) (2,326)
and current liabilities
Free cash flow $2,105 $1,811 $3,235 $4,485 $1,844 $1,911 $2,944 $2,524 $(946) $1,277 $11,502 $9,650
Total free cash flow, 2012 - 2023 $42,342
Number of years 12
Average free cash flow, 2012 - 2023 $ 3,529
8800
Refining Segment Adjusted EBITDA per Barrel
Refining segment adjusted EBITDA is defined as Refining segment operating income (loss) excluding depreciation and amortization
expense and the effect of special items that Valero believes are not indicative of its core operating performance and that may
obscure Valero’s underlying business results, trends and comparability between periods. Refining segment adjusted EBITDA per
barrel is annual Refining segment adjusted EBITDA divided by refinery throughput volume for the period. Throughput volumes are
calculated by multiplying throughput volumes per day by the number of days in the applicable period.
Reconciliation of Refining Segment Operating Income (Loss) to Refining Segment Adjusted EBITDA per Barrel
(in millions except per barrel amounts)
Year Ended December 31,
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Refining segment operating income (loss) $5,904 $6,881 $3,730 $3,975 $5,143 $4,022 ($1,342) $1,862 $15,803 $11,511
Plus: depreciation and amortization expense 1,559 1,699 1,734 1,800 1,910 2,062 2,138 2,169 2,247 2,351
Refining segment EBITDA 7,463 8,580 5,464 5,775 7,053 6,084 796 4,031 18,050 13,862
Adjustments:
Asset impairment loss - - 56 - - - - - - -
LIFO liquidation adjustment (229) - - - - - 222 - - -
LCM inventory valuation adjustment - 740 (697) - - - (19) - - -
Blender's tax credit - - - - (8) (2) - - - -
Modification of RVO - - - - - - 105 (1) (104) -
Other operating expenses - - - 58 45 20 34 83 63 17
Refining segment adjusted EBITDA (A) $7,234 $9,320 $4,823 $5,833 $7,090 $6,102 $1,138 $4,113 $18,009 $13,879
Throughput (million barrels) (B) 1,009 1,022 1,045 1,073 1,090 1,077 935 1,017 1,078 1,087
Refining segment adjusted EBITDA per barrel
$7.16 $9.12 $4.62 $5.43 $6.50 $5.67 $1.21 $4.04 $16.71 $12.76
(A/B)
Average refining segment adjusted EBITDA per barrel, 2014 - 2023 $7.32
Note: 2014 through 2017 exclude the results of VLP; 2018 through 2023 exclude the results of DGD which are reflected in the Renewable Diesel Segment.
EEnnvviirroonnmmeennttaall,, SSoocciiaall aanndd GGoovveerrnnaannccee RReeppoorrtt •• 8811
Adjusted Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities and Payout Ratio
Valero defines adjusted net cash provided by operating activities as net cash provided by operating activities excluding the
items noted below. Valero believes adjusted net cash provided by operating activities is an important measure of its ongoing
financial performance to better assess its ability to generate cash to fund Valero's investing and financing activities. The basis
for Valero's belief with respect to each excluded item is provided below.
• Changes in current assets and current liabilities - Current assets net of current liabilities represents Valero's operating
liquidity. Valero believes that the change in its operating liquidity from period to period does not represent cash generated
by Valero's operations that is available to fund Valero's investing and financing activities.
• DGD's adjusted net cash provided by operating activities attributable to the other joint venture member's ownership interest
in DGD - Valero is a 50 percent joint venture member in DGD and consolidates DGD's financial statements; as a result, all
of DGD's net cash provided by operating activities (or operating cash flow) is included in Valero's consolidated net cash
provided by operating activities. DGD's members use DGD's operating cash flow (excluding changes in its current assets
and current liabilities) to fund its capital investments rather than distribute all of that cash to themselves. Nevertheless,
DGD's operating cash flow is effectively attributable to each member and only 50 percent of DGD's operating cash flow
should be attributed to Valero's net cash provided by operating activities. Therefore, net cash provided by operating
activities has been adjusted for the portion of DGD's operating cash flow attributable to the other joint venture member's
ownership interest because Valero believes that it more accurately reflects the operating cash flow available to Valero to
fund Valero's investing and financing activities.
Payout Ratio is the sum of dividends and stock buybacks, including a 1% excise tax that commenced in 2023, divided by adjusted
net cash provided by operating activities.
Reconciliation of Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities to Adjusted Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities
(in millions)
Year Ended December 31,
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Net cash provided by operating activities $5,611 $4,820 $5,482 $4,371 $5,531 $948 $5,859 $12,574 $9,229
Exclude:
Changes in current assets and current
liabilities (1,306) 976 1,289 (1,297) 294 (345) 2,225 (1,626) (2,326)
DGD's adjusted net cash provided by
operating activities attributable to the other 81 83 41 175 390 338 381 436 512
joint venture member
Adjusted net cash provided by operating
activities (A) $6,836 $3,761 $4,152 $5,493 $4,847 $955 $3,253 $13,764 $11,043
Reconciliation of Purchases of Common Stock for Treasury and Common Stock Dividends to Payout Ratio
(in millions)
Year Ended December 31,
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Purchases of common stock for treasury* $2,838 $1,336 $1,372 $1,708 $777 $156 $27 $4,577 $5,188
Common stock dividends 848 1,111 1,242 1,369 1,492 1,600 1,602 1,562 1,452
Total payout (B) $3,686 $2,447 $2,614 $3,077 $2,269 $1,756 $1,629 $6,139 $6,640
Payout ratio (B/A) 54% 65% 63% 56% 47% 184% 50% 45% 60%
* "Purchases of common stock for treasury" includes 1% excise tax commencing in 2023. Accordingly, 2023 includes excise tax of $52 million.
8822
Return on Invested Capital (ROIC)
Valero defines return on invested capital (ROIC) as adjusted net income (loss) attributable to Valero stockholders before adjusted
net interest expense after-tax, divided by average adjusted invested capital. Valero defines adjusted net income attributable to
Valero as net income (loss) attributable to Valero stockholders adjusted for the after-tax effect of special items attributable to
Valero that Valero believes are not indicative of its core operating performance and that may obscure Valero's underlying business
results and trends (see corresponding earnings release for each year). Valero defines adjusted net interest expense as “interest and
debt expense, net of capitalized interest” adjusted to exclude “interest and debt expense, net of capitalized interest” attributable to
noncontrolling interests. The income tax effect of adjusted net interest expense is estimated based on the U.S. statutory income tax
rate for the respective annual period. Average adjusted invested capital is defined as the average of total adjusted invested capital
for the current annual period and total adjusted invested capital for the prior annual period. Valero defines total adjusted invested
capital as debt attributable to Valero, plus Valero stockholders' equity less adjusted cash and cash equivalents. Debt attributable to
Valero is defined as the current portion of debt and finance lease obligations, plus “debt and finance lease obligations, less current
portion”, less total debt and finance lease obligations attributable to consolidated VIEs. Debt attributable to Valero for the year
ended December 31, 2014 includes an adjustment to reflect the retrospective adoption of ASU No. 2015-15 subtopic 835-30, which
resulted in the reclassification of certain debt issuance costs from “deferred charges and other assets, net” to “debt and finance
lease obligations, less current portion.” Adjusted cash and cash equivalents is defined as cash and cash equivalents adjusted to
exclude cash and cash equivalents of consolidated VIEs. Debt and cash attributable to consolidated VIEs are excluded because
amounts are only available to fund the operations of the VIEs and the creditors do not have recourse against Valero.
Return on Invested Capital (ROIC)
(in millions)
Year Ended December 31,
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Numerator:
Net income (loss) attributable to VLO
$3,990 $2,289 $4,065 $3,122 $2,422 ($1,421) $930 $11,528 $8,835
stockholders
Total effect of special items attributable to
624 (565) (1,783) 113 (61) 238 221 48 (9)
VLO after-tax
Adjusted net income (loss) attributable
4,614 1,724 2,282 3,235 2,361 (1,183) 1,151 11,576 8,826
to VLO
Plus: adjusted net interest expense after-tax 274 283 295 357 355 442 464 410 394
Adjusted net income (loss) attributable to
VLO before adjusted net interest expense 4,888 2,007 2,577 3,592 2,716 (741) 1,615 11,986 9,220
after-tax (A)
Denominator:
Current portion of debt 606 127 115 122 238 494 723 1,264 1,109 1,406
Debt and finance leases, less current
5,780 7,208 7,886 8,750 8,871 9,178 13,954 12,606 10,526 10,118
portion
Less: debt issue costs - non-bank debt (ASU
(33) - - - - - - - - -
2015-15)
Less: debt and finance leases attributable
(29) (193) (576) (954) (1,138) (384) (630) (1,107) (1,618) (1,725)
to VIEs
Debt attributable to VLO 6,324 7,142 7,425 7,918 7,971 9,288 14,047 12,763 10,017 9,799
VLO stockholders’ equity 20,677 20,527 20,024 21,991 21,667 21,803 18,801 18,430 23,561 26,346
Less: adjusted cash and cash equivalents (3,419) (3,982) (4,563) (5,671) (2,747) (2,473) (3,152) (4,086) (4,713) (5,164)
Total adjusted invested capital $23,582 $23,687 $22,886 $24,238 $26,891 $28,618 $29,696 $27,107 $28,865 $30,981
Average adjusted invested capital (B) $23,635 $23,287 $23,562 $25,656 $27,755 $29,157 $28,401 $27,986 $29,923
ROIC (A / B) 21% 9% 11% 14% 10% -3% 6% 43% 31%
ROIC (9-year average) 16%
EEnnvviirroonnmmeennttaall,, SSoocciiaall aanndd GGoovveerrnnaannccee RReeppoorrtt •• 8833
LEADING PRODUCER OF LIQUID
TRANSPORTATION FUELS
CAPITAL DISCIPLINE
INNOVATION
UNMATCHED EXECUTION
Valero.com
Valero Energy Corporation
P.O. Box 696000, San Antonio, TX 78269
Scan for a playlist of the videos
featured throughout this report,
marked with this play button:
Digital Copy
