2022-2023
Corporate Sustainability Report
ABOUT THIS REPORT TABLE OF CONTENTS
Ventas is committed to providing transparent and Historical, current and forward-looking ESG-related
reliable reporting on our corporate environmental, statements may be based on standards for
social and governance (ESG) strategy, goals measuring progress that are still developing,
and progress. internal controls and processes that continue to
ESG Disclosure Sources
A Message from 04 Our Impact: 20 Our Standards: 62
evolve and assumptions that are subject to change
Our corporate ESG goals, initiatives and
Unless otherwise noted, quantitative data in this
in the future. The information contained in this achievements are disclosed on our website Our CEO Enabling Sustainable Leading in Governance
report is as of December 31, 2022, and financial
report is provided as of the date of this report and
and in three key documents published during Environments and and Transparency
information is presented in U.S. dollars. Our
is subject to change. Ventas does not undertake
the year.
2022-2023 Corporate Sustainability Report (CSR) Strong Communities
to update or revise any such statements. In this
encompasses substantially all of Ventas corporate Board of Directors 64
report, we do not use the terms “material” and
operations and our total owned real estate
portfolio. It does not address the performance of “materiality” as defined and interpreted by the About 06 Delivering on Our Net Zero 23 Corporate Governance Best Practices 65
rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Commitment
our suppliers, contractors, operators or tenants, Ventas ESG Governance 66
Exchange Commission (SEC). Instead, the terms
unless otherwise noted. Environmental Performance 26
refer to issues that are of significant importance to Risk Management 68
TCFD Report 30
This report is based on the Global Reporting our stakeholders and to Ventas. These “material”
Cybersecurity & Data Privacy 69
Initiative (GRI) sustainability reporting framework, issues inform our corporate ESG strategy, goals Operational Excellence 34
which is used to report about an organization’s and initiatives. Political Contributions 70
Responsible Growth 39
impacts on the economy, the environment and Prioritizing 08 Ethics & Compliance 71
This report contains forward-looking statements
society. Ventas has also incorporated disclosures Sustainability Community Investment & Philanthropy 43
relating to Ventas’s operations that are based on
aligned with the Task Force on Climate-related
management’s current expectations, estimates and
Financial Disclosures (TCFD) framework and
projections. See the “Cautionary Note Regarding Environmental, Social & 09
the United Nations Sustainable Development Our Employees: 48 Appendix 74
Forward-Looking Statements” on page 76. The Governance Framework
Goals (SDGs).
actual conduct of our activities may differ materially Empowering
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Framework 10
Ventas obtains third-party assurance of certain of in the future. As with any expectations, projections 2022-2023 Exceptional People
its ESG data and metrics, which can be found on or estimates, actual results may differ. Corporate Sustainability Report Stakeholder Engagement 12 Definitions 75
our website. Industry Engagement 13 Cautionary Note Regarding 76
Website references and hyperlinks throughout Talent Attraction & Retention 50
Forward-Looking Statements
this report are provided for convenience only, and ESG Materiality Assessment Refresh 14
Employee Health, Well-Being & Safety 52
the content on the referenced websites is not GRI Index 78
2022-2023 Sustainability Highlights 16
incorporated by reference into this report, nor does Employee Engagement 54
it constitute a part of this report. Sustainability Goals 18
Growth & Development 56
Proxy Statement
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion at Ventas 58
Annual Report/10-K
Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in
VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing
Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 2 Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 3
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency
A MESSAGE Dear Stakeholder, and outperforming our peer groups since the detailed decarbonization plans at both the property
beginning of 2022. Our achievements and and corporate levels – mapping smart capital
We are pleased to share our 2022-23 Corporate
innovations have built a successful enterprise investments to drive shareholder value, strengthen
Sustainability Report with you. Since our last
and long-term track record of performance, our portfolio and generate meaningful benefits for
FROM OUR report, we have significantly progressed our
while creating meaningful opportunities for our the planet we all share.
ambitious goals throughout Ventas and across our
employees to grow and develop. This success
portfolio, pursuing initiatives where we believe we Our strong corporate governance and our
has benefitted our industry, our business
are best positioned to have the greatest impact. commitment to ethics, integrity and transparency
relationships and our communities.
CEO
As a leading S&P 500 REIT, we are focused are the foundation for long-term, sustainable
on building a sustainable enterprise, unified by With a 25-year history of prioritizing investors value creation. We take a rigorous approach
compelling demographic demand, that creates and other stakeholders, empowering employees to governance and transparency, led by our
shared benefits for Ventas’s investors, the people and committing to best-in-class corporate outstanding, independent, engaged and
and communities engaged with our business and governance, our foundation is strong. Our fit-for-purpose Board of Directors.
Debra A. Cafaro other stakeholders. rigorous focus grounds our work and enables
Together, we’re invested in creating a future where
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer us to keep innovating in our approaches and
Our strategy is built on the needs of a large people live longer, healthier, happier lives. As
adapting to the dynamic world around us to
and growing aging population – owning and individuals enter their retirement years at record
drive success.
investing in diversified property types and rates, our work has never been more important.
business relationships catering to those needs; We continue to invest in and empower the
We are pleased to share our recent
maintaining financial strength and implementing best talent across disciplines. We encourage
accomplishments in this report and reaffirm our
access to multiple capital sources; and strong collaboration, recognize individuals for their unique
commitment to excellence and performance.
“Together, we’re invested in creating environmental, social and governance practices. strengths and continually enhance our employee
We look forward to continuing to advance these
We believe our holistic approach to ESG resources, all while upholding our commitment to an
a future where people live longer, priorities and sharing our progress with you along
strengthens our business, enhances our culture equitable and inclusive environment that celebrates
the way.
and supports our long-standing commitment to diversity in all its forms.
healthier, happier lives.”
excellence.
Across our portfolio, we are taking concrete steps Sincerely,
Our vision is captured in two powerful words: to increase energy efficiency and reduce our use of
win together. We enable exceptional real estate resources, transition to renewable energy, promote
environments that benefit our senior residents and the safety of our buildings, pursue a sustainable
their families, patients, providers and researchers. growth strategy and be a driving force of shared Debra A. Cafaro
success in our communities. In 2022, Ventas Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Our team’s commitment to this purpose has
became the first healthcare REIT to commit to
delivered outstanding results for our investors for
net zero operational carbon emissions, a goal the
over a quarter of a century, with 18% compound
company has set out to achieve by 2040. Over
annual total shareholder return since 2000
the past year, we have built and implemented
Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in
VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing
Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 4 Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 5
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency
ABOUT PORTFOLIO OVERVIEW Senior Housing 49% ~76,000 825
Communities
For 25 years, Ventas has pursued what we Providing quality lifestyles
of portfolio1 seniors senior housing
VENTAS1 believe is a successful, enduring strategy built on and care for seniors
diversification of property types, capital sources in independent living, communities
and partners; financial strength and flexibility; and assisted living and memory
a strong commitment to building a sustainable care communities
business. Working with industry-leading care
providers, partners, developers and research
and medical institutions, our collaborative and
Outpatient Medical 23% ~14,000 35M+
Ventas, Inc. is an S&P 500 company and one of the world’s preeminent real experienced team is focused on leveraging our
Buildings
estate investment trusts (REITs). We operate at the intersection of two large portfolio of properties to produce consistent,
and dynamic industries – healthcare and real estate. Our diversified portfolio of growing cash flows and superior returns on Supporting leading not-
of portfolio1 providers patient visits
for-profit and for-profit
assets is unified in serving the needs of a large and growing aging demographic. a strong balance sheet for the benefit of our
annually
healthcare systems,
Across our senior housing communities, outpatient medical buildings, research shareholders.
physicians and patients
centers and other healthcare assets, we enable exceptional environments that
benefit the aging population.
Caléo Research Centers 10% 17+ 5 of
LEED® Silver
Enabling cutting-edge
research facilities top 6
of portfolio1 top-tier research
advancing treatments and
25 ~1,400 18% 450+ cures for clinical conditions universities
life science clusters
years of operations properties compound annual total stockholder employees
return CAGR (since 1999)2
Healthcare Facilities 19% 11,500+ ~3M
2nd largest
$32B 27M $5B+ Serving critical
healthcare needs
of portfolio1 beds patient days
enterprise value owner of senior housing in square foot outpatient medical assets under management annually
the U.S. and research portfolio in the Ventas Investment
Management Platform
1 Data as of 6/30/2023.
Atria at Foster Square
2 Bloomberg, for the period beginning 12/31/1999 and ending 6/30/2023. Ventas stock price adjusted historically for spin-off of Care Capital Properties, Inc. on 8/17/2015. LEED® Silver, IREM® CSP, ENERGY STAR® certified 1 Reflects portfolio concentration based on Annualized Adjusted NOI as of 6/30/2023.
Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in
VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing
Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 6 Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 7
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency
PRIORITIZING ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL & GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK
Our approach to ESG is rooted in our company’s strategy and the interests of our investors, employees and other stakeholders. We focus on areas where we can
SUSTAINABILITY have the greatest impact. Three priorities guide our ongoing ESG efforts.
At Ventas, we believe strong ESG practices are essential to delivering
sustainable long-term outperformance. We view sustainability as a
multi-dimensional objective rooted in operational excellence and achieved
at the intersection of quality, investment, safety and resiliency. This is a
collaborative endeavor. Together, through purposeful partnerships, we have
built a business that enables world-class environments for care and scientific Our Impact Our Employees Our Standards
advancement – unified in serving a large and growing aging population – and
strengthens the communities that are essential to the success of our business.
Enabling Sustainable Environments Empowering Exceptional People Leading in Governance
By excelling at what we do, we deliver outsized value for our investors and
and Strong Communities and Transparency
other stakeholders.
Our ESG strategy is focused on the issues that are believed to be the most
impactful for our company, investors, employees, business relationships
and communities. Our strong ESG practices position our We excel at what we do by investing in Our strong corporate governance and
business for sustainable long-term the best talent across disciplines and commitment to ethics, integrity and
The following pages provide an overview of our strategy, goals, initiatives outperformance. From capital allocation industries. We encourage collaboration, transparency serve as the foundation
and achievements. to active asset management, we see the recognize individuals for their unique for sustainable long-term value creation.
big picture and take the long view in our strengths and continually enhance our Our work and impact are supported by a
approach to environmental sustainability, employee resources to support personal best-in-class governance structure. Our
9 Environmental, Social & Governance Framework ongoing operations, growth strategies and professional success. Our colleagues’ rigorous approach to risk management
and our relationships with communities. diverse experiences and perspectives and dedication to building a sustainable
10 Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Framework
strengthen our business outcomes. business positions Ventas as a leader.
12 Stakeholder Engagement
In this section: delivering on our In this section: talent attraction & In this section: Board of Directors;
13 Industry Engagement
net zero commitment; environmental retention; health, well-being & safety; corporate governance best practices;
14 ESG Materiality Assessment Refresh performance; TCFD report; operational employee engagement; growth & ESG governance; risk management;
excellence; responsible growth; development; diversity, equity & inclusion cybersecurity & data privacy; political
16 2022-2023 Sustainability Highlights
community investment & philanthropy. at Ventas. contributions; ethics & compliance.
18 Sustainability Goals
3737 Market Street
LEED® Gold
Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in
VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing
Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 8 Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 9
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency
DIVERSITY, EQUITY & INCLUSION FRAMEWORK DE&I Committee
The Ventas DE&I Committee was established in 2020, sponsored by our Chairman and CEO and
We value diverse experiences and perspectives in all forms, equal access to opportunity and inclusive
co-chaired by members of our Leadership Team. The committee is composed of four sub-committees
engagement. We believe these are essential drivers of our success. Research shows – and our own
with multi-disciplinary representatives from across the company reflecting each of the pillars outlined in the
experience has proven – diverse groups achieve better outcomes. We know this is particularly true when
54% 38% DE&I framework.
there is a strong feeling of belonging and openness to different perspectives, and we work hard to foster this
culture at Ventas. The DE&I Steering Committee meets quarterly to review progress toward objectives and discuss strategies
Board diversity M/WBE U.S. and initiatives to advance our goals. The Nominating, Governance and Corporate Responsibility Committee
We believe our approach to diversity, equity and inclusion (DE&I) strengthens our business outcomes. Our
by gender or development hard and our full Board of Directors receive regular updates on our progress.
comprehensive DE&I framework is designed to focus our efforts on goals and initiatives that will have the
ethnicity cost spend in 2022
greatest impact on our company, our industry and our communities and contribute to sustainable
long-term outperformance.
DE&I Steering Committee
The Ventas DE&I framework stands on four strategic pillars.
59% 1,100+ • Sponsored by our Chairman and CEO and co-chaired by our EVP, General Counsel and Ethics &
Compliance Officer and a Senior Investment Officer.
• The DE&I Steering Committee also includes our VP, Corporate ESG & Sustainability and the chairs
People Culture
total company hours of DE&I- of each of the DE&I sub-committees.
Embedding diversity, equity and inclusion Supporting and advancing a culture of diversity by related training and
throughout the employee life cycle, diversity, equity and inclusion, embracing gender or programming
including in our approach to hiring, our employees’ unique perspectives and ethnicity People Culture Beyond Ventas Investment & Financial
professional development, career backgrounds and sharing our commitment Sub-committee Sub-committee Sub-committee Sub-committee
progression and compensation. to DE&I internally and externally. Chair Chair Chair Chair
Discussion and examples Discussion and examples can be >50% >25% • VP, Human • VP, Corporate • VP, Corporate • Director,
Resources Risk Finance Development
can be found on pages 50-58 found on pages 54-61 of
of this report. this report.
management of charitable giving
positions held by in 2022 supported
women work that “Our approach to DE&I strengthens our culture and supports our growth
Investment & advances DE&I
Beyond Ventas and performance. Elevating diversity, equity and inclusion throughout our
Financial
organization enables us to attract the best talent, empower our employees to
Positively affecting society and
Expanding our relationships with
strengthening our communities achieve their full potential and create a lasting positive impact for our investors
minority and women-owned
through DE&I-focused philanthropic and Throughout this report, we share
business enterprises (M/WBEs) and other stakeholders.”
community investment efforts. details about our DE&I strategy, goals
and promoting and supporting
and initiatives, our achievements to
the DE&I efforts of our partners, Discussion and examples can be found
date and the people who are powering Carey Roberts
vendors and suppliers. on pages 43-47 of this report.
our progress. EVP, General Counsel and Ethics & Compliance Officer,
Co-Chair of the Ventas DE&I Committee
Discussion and examples can
be found on pages 39-42 of
this report.
Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in
VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing
Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 10 Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 11
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT INDUSTRY ENGAGEMENT
We value and prioritize regular engagement with our investors and other stakeholders, including employees, business partners and the communities where we do business. We actively collaborate with other industry leaders
This engagement informs our business strategy and operations, including our ESG strategy, goals and initiatives. through involvement in industry associations. Nareit The Real Estate Roundtable (RER)
Through these efforts, we share best practices,
Ventas employees are active participants and Serving as the immediate past chair and current
Ventas also considers new and pending regulation, voluntary frameworks and standards, industry trends, evolving best practices and the views of outside experts reinforce our ESG priorities and amplify our
leaders in Nareit thought leadership councils, board member of the RER, Ventas Chairman
and consultants.
industry’s impact.
sharing best practices for driving business and and CEO Debra A. Cafaro comes together with
ESG performance in the REIT industry. Our other leaders of the nation’s top publicly held and
Chairman and CEO, Debra A. Cafaro, co-chairs privately owned real estate firms and the leaders
the Dividends Through Diversity, Equity & Inclusion of major national real estate trade associations.
(DDEI) CEO Council, a group of nearly 30 REIT RER addresses key national policy issues relating
CEOs leading the REIT industry’s efforts to to real estate and the overall economy, ensuring
support the recruitment, inclusion, development that policymakers hear a cohesive industry voice.
Investors Employees Partners Communities
and advancement of underrepresented groups The RER works to advance sustainable national
• Best-in-class, year-round, Board-led • Live Leadership Updates (page 54) • Ventas Operational InsightsTM (page 36) • Marquee partnerships that connect us in the industry. Ventas was an inaugural donor public policies that support long-term growth for
investor engagement program that • Annual employee engagement and • Annual tenant satisfaction survey with the needs and perspectives of our to the DDEI Giving Campaign, which launched a the economy and the real estate industry.
includes discussion of ESG strategy, quarterly pulse surveys (page 54) (page 34) communities (pages 43-44)
grant program in 2023 to support organizations
goals, initiatives and progress • Everyday Outperformance coaching • Dedicated online tenant portal • Employee volunteerism (pages 43, 45) In her role as RER Chair, Cafaro established the
addressing barriers faced by underserved or
• Management-led investor and and performance management • Tenant appreciation events • Civic and community engagement Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Committee. Ventas
analyst meetings program (pages 45-47) underrepresented businesses, professionals and
• Collaboration with operators on is an active participant on the committee and
• P coa nrt fi ec rip enat cio en s ain n k de ey v i en nd tu ss try • E (pm agp elo sy 4ee 3 ,C 4h 5a ) ritable Fund E ceS rG tif ia cc at ti io on ns s s au nc dh e g nr ee re gn y, b wu aild tein r g a nd • P evro ej ne tc st ad ne dv e mlo ep em tine gn st c (po am gm esu 3n 9ity -4 2) students in the real estate industry. is represented by our Director, Development.
• Robust public disclosures on business, • Ventas Connect intranet waste reduction efforts • Website and social media updates Our VP, Corporate ESG & Sustainability is Our VP, Corporate ESG & Sustainability serves
financial and ESG performance the immediate past chair of the Real Estate on the RER Sustainability Policy Advisory
• Recurring company newsletter and • Website and social media updates
through our Proxy Statement, Annual CEO update emails Sustainability Council and remains actively Committee, which focuses on a variety of
Report/10-K, Corporate Sustainability
Report, company website and • Ventas Speaker Series (pages 54, 56, involved with the group, which is composed of environmentally and economically sustainable
other materials 60-61) over 110 sustainability thought leaders from building policies.
• Employee Resource Groups more than 70 REITs, with a mission to help
(pages 55, 60-61) shape and lead the industry on ESG and climate
issues. Ventas is also a member of the Social
Responsibility Council, represented by our VP,
Human Resources.
Sutter Van Ness
LEED® Gold
Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in
VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing
Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 12 Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 13
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency
ESG MATERIALITY Process Results
ASSESSMENT REFRESH
1 Prepare Medium Impact to Ventas High Impact to Ventas
In 2023, Ventas conducted a refresh of its ESG materiality1 assessment, • Researched and identified emerging and trending
which identifies the most important ESG topics for Ventas to manage. topics using Sustainability Accounting Standards Board
Our process was guided by the latest Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) (SASB), GRI and industry research
Standards for determining material topics2 and involved broad internal
• Assembled list of potential topics and definitions for
and external stakeholder engagement. Materiality of topics was
stakeholder input
evaluated based on the magnitude of impacts to Ventas and from Ventas
on the economy, environment and society.
1 ESG materiality is based on an organization’s significant impacts on the economy, 2 Engage
environment and people, including human rights, and is distinct from materiality as
defined by the SEC.
• Surveyed and interviewed key stakeholders, including
2 GRI 3: Material Topics 2021, effective 1/1/2023.
the Board of Directors, Ventas leadership, tenants,
operating partners and investors to assess the impacts
of potential topics on Ventas and on society
3 Analyze
• Compiled and analyzed the results
• Validated and confirmed results and topics with the
Ventas Executive Leadership Team
4 Utilize
• The results will inform a refresh of our corporate
ESG goals
Doctor’s Center at St. Joseph’s Hospital
IREM® CSP
Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in
VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing
Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 14 Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 15
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency
satneV
morf
tcapmI
• Climate Change - • Strong Tenant, Resident &
Decarbonization/Net Zero Operator Relationships
• Diversity, Equity & Inclusion • Responsible Investment &
Development • Energy
• Health, Safety & Wellness
• Community Impact
• Climate Change -
• Human Rights & Labor
Implications/Risk
Relations
High
Impact
to
Society
• Water • Talent Attraction &
• Waste Retention
• Policy Influence • Cybersecurity & Policy
• Executive Compensation
• Biodiversity & Ecosystems
Medium
Impact
to
Society
Impact to Ventas
Doctor’s Center at St. Joseph’s Hospital
IREM® CSP
2022-2023 Advanced Our Net Zero Continued Leadership in Expanded Our Talent Pipeline to RECENT ESG AWARDS AND RECOGNITIONS
Carbon Commitment Energy Management Drive Performance
SUSTAINABILITY
We created and rolled out We earned the 2023 ENERGY STAR® We significantly expanded our channels
HIGHLIGHTS property-specific decarbonization Partner of the Year Sustained Excellence in for sourcing candidates – including
roadmaps for all ~800 properties Energy Management Award, the program’s through relationships with organizations
within our operational control and highest honor, and ranked among the top such as the Real Estate Executive
At Ventas, we are proud of our
are incorporating decarbonization 15 ENERGY STAR® certifiers of 2022. Council (REEC) and The National
continued ESG leadership and
into our routine capital Association of Black Accountants – to
achievements and the long-
planning processes. elevate the excellence of our team and
term value it creates for our
drive performance.
investors and other stakeholders
including by reducing operational
costs, promoting the resiliency
of our assets and strengthening
#1 Listed Healthcare REIT Named a 2022 Top Corporate Awarded Nareit’s Healthcare Selected to the DJSI Index Achieved ISS ESG Prime
our company, industry and
in Global Real Estate Citizen by 3BL Media for the Leader in the Light for the 6th for the 4th consecutive year Status for Corporate ESG
communities.
Launched New Leadership Invested in Our Communities Strengthened Our Employee Sustainability Benchmark 3rd consecutive year consecutive year and (World) and 6th consecutive performance
Effectiveness Programs Engagement Proposition Assessment since 2017 7th time overall year (North America)
In 2022, $28 million of our active
“Our ESG successes We engaged expert trainers to development spend was executed with We increased opportunities for
deliver customized multi-day M/WBEs. Through the Ventas Charitable employee feedback with the
reflect our smart capital
programming for our Leadership Foundation, we donated to more than 60 introduction of quarterly pulse
approach to business
Team and employees at the organizations in the communities where surveys, informing the initiatives and
and drive sustainable director and manager levels, we do business. enhancements undertaken across
focusing on increasing our company.
long-term value creation
leadership effectiveness.
by lowering operating
costs, mitigating risks
and enabling us to attract Sustained Excellence in Enhanced ESG and
and retain the best Tenant Satisfaction DE&I Oversight
talent.” In 2022, our outpatient medical We renamed and expanded the role of the Awarded Bronze in Nareit’s Named one of America’s Chairman and CEO Named to the Bloomberg Submitted CDP Climate
portfolio achieved 93% tenant Nominating, Governance and Corporate 2022 Diversity, Equity & Most Responsible Companies Debra A. Cafaro honored Gender Equality Index (GEI) Change response for the
Kelly Meissner satisfaction, outperforming the vast Responsibility (NGCR) Committee to Inclusion Recognition Awards by Newsweek for the with Strategic for the 4th consecutive year 12th consecutive year
Vice President, Corporate
majority of our peers in the industry include oversight and monitoring of the 2nd consecutive year Leadership Award
ESG & Sustainability
and improving overall tenant company’s ESG and DE&I efforts.
satisfaction for the fourth
straight year.
Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in
VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing
Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 16 Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 17
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency
SUSTAINABILITY GOALS TOPIC & UN SDG GOAL 2022 STATUS PERFORMANCE1
RESPONSIBLE Achieve LEED® Silver or better on 100% of new research 100% of research center developments are on track to achieve LEED® Silver
Ventas has set measurable goals to make meaningful progress toward our prioritized ESG topics, as determined by our inaugural materiality assessment in 2019. The Achieved
INVESTMENT center developments or better
goals are aligned with nine of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs) where we believe we can have the most impact.
Evaluate the cost and feasibility of LEED® or equivalent for all 100% of new developments have been evaluated for LEED® cost
Achieved
We are refreshing our ESG goals to reflect our most recent materiality assessment, which we completed in August 2023. We look forward to sharing our refreshed ESG new developments and feasibility
goals in 2024.
CLIMATE CHANGE Maintain less than 10% of annual NOI from properties in high
TOPIC & UN SDG GOAL 2022 STATUS PERFORMANCE1 Achieved 4.3% of NOI6 was from properties in high flood risk zones
flood risk areas (FEMA Zone A)
TALENT ATTRACTION Achieve overall employee engagement in top half of Employee engagement in 61st percentile of peer benchmark; Maintain active emergency plans for 100% of non-NNN
Achieved Achieved 100% of non-NNN assets have emergency plans in place
& RETENTION peer benchmark 80% participation leased assets
Provide an employee medical health benefits package that Ventas’s medical health benefits package exceeded the peer benchmark Since announcing a net zero goal in March 2022, Ventas has developed
Achieved
exceeds a national cross-industry benchmark by 36% Develop a net zero carbon emissions goal and implementation decarbonization roadmaps for each of its operational assets7 and identified
Achieved
strategy by 2022 pathways to achieve 100% zero-carbon electricity by 2035; see pages 23-25
Provide minimum wage of $17/hour for full-time employees for more detail
On Track 99.6% of employees earned at least $17/hour
by 2024
ENVIRONMENT GHG Emissions: Reduce emissions from scopes 1, 2 and 3 on
Since 2018, Ventas has reduced its total scopes 1 + 2 (market-based)
Prevent lost time injuries: annual goal of 0 lost time incidents for Not an absolute basis by 30% by 2030 (2.5% annually); scope 1 + 2 On Track
Two lost time incidents2 emissions by 20.4% and scope 3 emissions by 17.8%8,9
employees Achieved goal is validated by the Science Based Targets initiative
DIVERSITY, EQUITY & Maintain employee gender balance (50% female: 50% male)
Achieved 2022 employee gender ratio was 47% female: 53% male
Energy: Reduce intensity (MWh/1,000 SF) for properties Since 2018, Ventas has reduced the energy intensity of properties within its
INCLUSION across organization (+/- 5%) in environmental control boundary by 20% over 10 years Achieved
environmental boundary by 22.8%9
(2% annually)
Maintain or exceed 30% women on the Ventas Board
Achieved The Ventas Board was 36% female
of Directors Water: Reduce intensity (cubic meters/1,000 SF) for properties
Behind Since 2018, Ventas has reduced the water intensity of properties within its
in environmental control boundary by 20% over 10 years
Achieve 25% female representation among Ventas Leadership Track environmental boundary by 5.3%9
Achieved Ventas Leadership was 34% female (2% annually)
by 20233
Waste: Recycling programs at 100% of assets within Behind At the end of 2022, Ventas has recycling services available at 62% of
TENANT, RESIDENT UPDATED Ventas’s outpatient medical tenant satisfaction survey results exceeded environmental control boundary by 2028 Track properties within its environmental boundary
& OPERATOR
Achieved Kingsley’s top quartile for overall tenant satisfaction benchmark and
Maintain or exceed top quartile for overall tenant satisfaction as
SATISFACTION
measured by Kingsley Index for outpatient medical portfolio increased by 0.8%4 1 As of 12/31/2022 unless otherwise indicated. 6 Calculation excludes ~2.3% of NOI from properties that are unmapped in FEMA flood data.
2 0 incidents in 2023 as of 9/8/2023. 7 As of 12/31/2022; roadmaps for operational assets subsequently acquired will be created.
Achieve research center overall tenant satisfaction above peer Not Ventas’s research center tenant satisfaction survey results did not exceed the
benchmark (Kingsley Index) and at least 1% annual increase Achieved Kingsley Index benchmark, and decreased by 1.6% 3 Leadership defined at Ventas as Vice President-level and above, including executive officers. 8 Ventas’s 2018 base year emissions have been recalculated in accordance with the GHG Protocol
4 Outpatient medical ranked in the 93rd percentile in the 2022 Kingsley Index. See page 34 to reflect acquisitions, dispositions and transitions through 12/31/2022.
Derive at least 80% of senior housing NOI from tenants/ Achieved 96.7% of senior housing NOI5 was derived from tenants/operators that for details. 9 Emissions, energy and water data are time-weighted by property for the period of ownership.
operators that conduct resident satisfaction surveys conduct resident satisfaction surveys
5 In 2022, we modified our methodology for this metric. Applying this same methodology in 2021,
this metric would have been 96.6%.
Derive 100% of healthcare and senior housing NNN NOI from
100% of healthcare and senior housing NNN NOI was from agreements
agreements requiring compliance with applicable health and Achieved
requiring compliance with applicable health and safety laws
safety laws
Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in
VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing
Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 18 Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 19
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency
ENABLING Strong ESG practices are essential to enabling sustainable environments
and strong communities. We seek to meet the needs of our tenants,
operators and partners while bolstering the quality and resiliency of our
SUSTAINABLE portfolio, all with the goal of driving sustainable long-term outperformance. ~800 ~30M
To that end, we are taking concrete, industry-leading steps to:
• Reduce the use of and create efficiencies for our consumption
ENVIRONMENTS
of resources property-specific green building
• Transition our portfolio to renewable energy decarbonization certified square feet
AND STRONG • Promote the safety of our buildings roadmaps created
• Grow sustainably
and rolled out
• Strengthen the communities we are a part of and that are essential to
COMMUNITIES
our success
We support and apply measurable sustainable practices and standards
by embedding them into our core activities, including capital sourcing and 154 93%
deployment, and active asset and portfolio management. These practices
As a leading owner of healthcare real estate, we work to cultivate a portfolio
generate significant benefits for our investors and other stakeholders, the
of reliable, well-maintained properties that meet the growing demand of the
communities we are a part of and the planet we all share, where we’re
aging population. With favorable demographic tailwinds across our portfolio,
ENERGY STAR® tenant satisfaction in
proud to be helping people live longer healthier, happier lives.
we take a unique approach rooted in rigorous analytics and smart capital to
certifications outpatient medical
capitalize on opportunities and position our business for sustainable long-term
outperformance. Our business activities and community investment contribute awarded in 2022 portfolio
to value creation for our investors and other stakeholders while driving a Our Smart Capital Approach
positive impact on the people whose lives intersect with our properties and the
We pride ourselves on our smart capital approach, which is
communities that are so important to the success of our business.
designed to maximize short-term outcomes and drive sustainable
long-term value creation. Our unique approach to financial
75% 38%
stewardship is based on our experience, expertise and rigorous
data and analytics. Smart capital means taking an informed,
23 Delivering on Our Net Zero Commitment
data-driven and holistic view of risks and opportunities to develop
26 Environmental Performance and execute on strategies – including in ESG – that make of our SHOP M/WBE U.S.
30 TCFD Report sense for Ventas and promote the interests of our investors and operating portfolio development hard
other stakeholders.
34 Operational Excellence
upgraded to LED cost spend in 2022
For an example of our smart capital approach in practice, see the
39 Responsible Growth
discussion of our net zero operational carbon efforts on
43 Community Investment & Philanthropy
pages 23-25.
South Street Landing
LEED® Silver, BOMA 360, ENERGY STAR® certified
Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in
VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing
Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 20 Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 21
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency
DELIVERING ON OUR NET ZERO COMMITMENT
PROPERTY SPOTLIGHT
Modernizing Outpatient
Why We Set This Goal
Medical Buildings
in Arizona
We believe that achieving net zero operational carbon emissions will result in lower energy and maintenance
costs, more resilient assets, improved air quality and occupant comfort, and enhanced tenant and resident
Desert Medical Campus in Mesa, Arizona, attraction and retention.
recently completed a $45 million modernization
project. The state-of-the-art project transformed
the entire four-building, 313K+ SF outpatient
InIn 2 2002222, ,V Veenntatass b beeccaammee t hthee
medical campus located adjacent to Banner
LOWER
Desert Medical Center to increase the long- fifirsrst th heeaaltlhthccaarere R REEITIT t oto c coommmmiti t
ENERGY
term performance of the properties while better toto n neet tz zeeroro o oppeeraratitoionnaal lc caarbrboonn
COSTS
serving the healthcare needs of the growing MORE RESILIENT
eemmisisssioionnss ( s(sccooppeess 1 1 a anndd 2 2) )— —
LONG
East Valley community. ASSETS
aa g gooaal lt hthee c coommppaannyy h haass s seet t TERM
The modernization project features include: oouut tt oto a acchhieievvee b byy 2 2004400. .T Thhisis VALUE
• Innovative design that transformed an sstetepp f ufurtrhtheersrs o ouur rp poossitiitoionn a ass a a
underutilized outdoor space with direct sun leleaaddeer ri nin e enneergrgyy e effifficcieiennccyy a anndd
exposure into an inviting new community ddeeccaarbrboonnizizaatitoionn, ,a addddiningg t oto a a
space shaded by a solar array canopy
trtaracckk r ereccoordrd t hthaat ti ninccluluddeess LOWER
• Drought-resistant native landscaping lolonngg-s-statannddiningg i ninvveesstmtmeenntsts i nin MAINTENANCE IMPROVED AIR
• New building facades with expansive COSTS QUALITY & COMFORT
eenneergrgyy r eredduucctitoionnss a anndd a a
glassed-in atrium lobbies
ssccieiennccee-b-baasseedd
• Common space lounge areas including an
eemmisisssioionnss t atargrgeet.t.
on-site eatery
• Improved wayfinding and building signage TENANT & RESIDENT
ATTRACTION
& RETENTION
Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in
VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing
Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 22 Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 23
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency
Three Levers of Decarbonization
Our Decarbonization Strategy
Our Path to Net Zero
Ventas's net zero decarbonization strategy has three primary
ENERGY EFFICIENCY
components: energy efficiency, electrification & refrigerant management
and renewable energy. We have developed property-specific roadmaps
ELECTRIFICATION & REFRIGERANT MANAGEMENT
to drive decarbonization, which have been integrated into our annual 1 Partnered with building decarbonization experts 4 Incorporated stakeholder feedback into roadmaps
WHAT HAVE WE
capex planning and budgeting process. In addition, we are developing
ACCOMPLISHED
strategies to achieve 100% renewable energy by 2035. RENEWABLE ENERGY 2 Created roadmaps using 1M+ data points 5 Trained operators on roadmap implementation
RECENTLY?
3 Socialized and tested roadmaps with 50+ stakeholders 6 Integrated roadmaps into capital budgeting and planning
ELECTRIC
ON-SITE SOLAR
HEAT PUMPS NEUTRALIZE
How We Do It RESIDUAL GOAL
STRATEGY 100% RENEWABLE EMISSIONS ACHIEVED
IMPLEMENTATION ENERGY TARGET
Our property-specific roadmaps are optimally ENERGY EFFICIENCY 60% RENEWABLE 100%
ENERGY TARGET
sequenced to maximize the net present value of IMPLEMENTATION STRATEGY
the building improvements and realize net energy DEVELOPMENT
ELECTRIFICATION
cost savings, while enhancing the tenant and
MEASUREMENT & REFRIGERANT
resident experience. The roadmaps include
MANAGEMENT
actions such as increased roof and building STUDY & SET NET
ANALYSIS
insulation, implementation of robust building ZERO GOAL
ROOF & BUILDING
REFRIGERANT INSULATION energy management systems, transitioning
MANAGEMENT heating and cooling to electric heat pump
technology, assessing opportunities for on-site
solar, implementing refrigerant management and
tracking and LED lighting.
2010 2020 2030 2040
LED LIGHTING
BUILDING ENERGY
MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
ENERGY EFFICIENCY ELECTRIFICATION & REFRIGERANT MANAGEMENT RENEWABLE ENERGY CARBON OFFSETS
Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in
VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing
Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 24 Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 25
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency
ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE
Emissions
Goal:
Reduce Emissions by
1,000,000
30% by 2030
2022 Progress:
750,000
On Track
500,000
250,000
0
2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2030
Target
Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in
VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing
Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 26 Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 27
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency
e2OC
TM
nI
Energy
PROPERTY SPOTLIGHT
Ventas achieved its goal to reduce its energy intensity by 20% by 2028, six years early, in
2021. Since 2018, Ventas has reduced its energy intensity by 22.8% through 2022. This was
driven by $82 million in energy efficient investments since 2018 in scalable energy efficiency
In support of our goal to reduce emissions by 30% by 2030, since 2018 Ventas has reduced
Benchmarking Through ENERGY
such as LED lighting, advanced Building Management Systems controls and efficient heating,
scope 1 + 2 market-based emissions by 20.4% and scope 3 emissions by 17.8%. Our carbon
STAR® Portfolio Manager
ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC) equipment. In addition to reducing carbon emissions,
reductions are primarily driven by improvements in energy efficiency and renewable energy
improvements in energy efficiency drive sustainable long-term shareholder value by reducing
procurement. As detailed in the prior section, Ventas announced a new goal to achieve net Across our business, we take a rigorous
energy and maintenance costs and creating more resilient assets.
zero operational carbon emissions by 2040. This goal will be achieved through continued approach to data and analytics to develop
focus on energy efficiency, expanded efforts to electrify our buildings and the transition to actionable insights that inform our decision
100% renewable electricity by 2035. Positioning ourselves at the forefront of the energy making. Since 2021, we have onboarded
transition will result in lower energy and maintenance costs, more resilient assets, improved air the vast majority of our portfolio to
quality and occupant comfort, and enhanced tenant & resident attraction and retention. ENERGY STAR® Portfolio Manager (ESPM),
including energy, water and waste data.
Progress Highlights Leveraging ESPM has enabled more robust
environmental data quality and analysis of • Developed decarbonization roadmaps • Implemented energy efficiency • Continued to evaluate
for all properties within our operational measures at more than 100 of opportunities for on-site Net Zero Design our energy, water and waste consumption,
control (~800) to advance our progress our outpatient medical buildings solar and green tariff and supports our leadership in ENERGY
toward our net zero goal. through our partnership with programs with our utilities. in Charlotte
STAR® certifications as well as compliance
Carbon Lighthouse.
with municipal benchmarking and
Ventas has partnered with Wexford and
performance standards.
Atrium Health to develop a new two-building
PROGRESS TOWARD EMISSIONS GOAL1, 2 medical school in Charlotte, North Carolina, 27 To further enhance our data capabilities,
currently the largest city without a medical we developed a comprehensive property
Scope 1 + 2
school. The project is pursuing both LEED® and portfolio benchmarking tool. This
Scope 3 24
Gold for design and construction and LEED® bespoke tool assesses three-year energy
Zero Carbon certifications. To promote and water consumption trends, improving
net zero operations, the design includes 21 data quality for reporting and identification of
highly efficient and electrified equipment. efficiency opportunities. Our benchmarking
In addition, the team is conducting a tool and data repository also supported
18
whole-building life cycle analysis (WBLCA). the development of our net zero roadmaps
The WBLCA will help the team quantify and was provided to each of our operators
the benefits of using low-carbon concrete 15 for their properties in conjunction with the
2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2028
and other materials to reduce the project’s roadmap rollout.
Target
embodied carbon.
1 In 2022, Ventas recalculated its 2018 base year emissions following the GHG Protocol’s fixed base year, all year approach. The recalculation was
triggered by the accumulation of several acquisitions and dispositions since 2018. All years (2018 – 2022) now reflect our 2022 portfolio.
2 Actual (non-estimated) emissions data for 2022 is 90.5% for scopes 1 and 2 and 75.9% for Scope 3.
oiloftroP
yradnuoB-nI
latoT
FS
000,1/hWM
Progress Highlights
• We have implemented HVAC • We have completed LED • Earned 154 ENERGY STAR®
optimization projects across 106 lighting upgrades in ~75% certifications in 2022, covering
outpatient medical buildings, of our SHOP portfolio and 12.7 million square feet of our
total portfolio; the only REIT to resulting in 30,090 MWh of energy expect to be 100% LED
achieve Elite Status in the EPA’s
savings, 23,600 MTCO2e in by 2024. Certification Nation program.
emissions reductions and cost
savings of $2.3 million annually.
Goal: PROGRESS TOWARD ENERGY GOAL1, 2
Reduce Energy Intensity
by 20% by 2028
2022 Progress:
Achieved
Same-store (SS) Year-
over-Year % Change in
MWh/1,000 SF
’20-’21 SS ’21-’22 SS
-0.10% 1.20%
1 Denominator square feet are time-weighted for asset ownership periods.
2 Actual (non-estimated) energy data for 2022 is 98.4%.
Water
In support of our goal to reduce water intensity by 20% by 2028, since 2018 Ventas has
reduced its water intensity by 5.3%. This is driven by water reduction projects and pilots across
our operating portfolio, including smart irrigation systems, low-flow fixtures, toilet retrofits, water
meter technology and automatic leak detection equipment. These technologies can achieve
water consumption and cost reductions of 40% or more when combined and significantly
reduce the risk of damage from water leaks, driving sustainable long-term value creation. We
continue to evaluate and implement water technologies in support of our long-term goal.
Goal:
Reduce Water Intensity
175
by 20% by 2028
2022 Progress:
Behind Track 150
Same-store (SS) Year-
over-Year % Change in
cubic meters/1,000 SF 125
’20-’21 SS ’21-’22 SS
5.40% 6.60%
100
2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2028
Target
Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in
VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing
Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 28 Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 29
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency
oiloftroP
yradnuoB-nI
latoT
FS
000,1/sretem
cibuc
Waste
PROPERTY SPOTLIGHT
In support of our goal to have recycling in place at 100% of in-boundary assets by 2028,
Ventas has increased recycling in its operating portfolio to 62% in 2022, up from 47% in 2020.
This is driven by collaboration with our operators to increase the adoption of recycling service
throughout our portfolio. By tracking waste data and driving landfill diversion through recycling
and composting, Ventas helps our operators maintain efficient waste management practices.
Progress Highlights
• Facilitated a waste procurement • Implemented composting • Partnered with multiple
Progress Highlights project including more than a dozen at more than 100 SHOP vendors to reuse flooring,
• Implemented water meter technology • Installed leak detection • Outfitted low-flow fixtures and of our operating partners, driving cost communities for residents; roofing and other
reductions, service improvements food is one of the largest materials removed during that eliminates air bubbles from equipment that helps property retrofits for older toilets to
and opportunities to increase waste categories for our renovations. water lines, reducing water utility teams identify high water usage use less water per flush and
Xeriscaping at Atria waste diversion. senior housing portfolio.
charges and ensuring consistent and avoid catastrophic leaks. prevent overflows.
water pressure. Rancho Mirage
Ventas partnered with our operator, Atria
Goal:
PROGRESS TOWARD WATER GOAL1, 2 Senior Living, to complete a xeriscaping
Recycling at 100%
project at Atria Rancho Mirage Terrace 100% of In-boundary
in California in early 2023. Xeriscaping Assets by 2028
is an approach to landscaping which
80%
leverages the natural beauty of native plant 2022 Progress:
species and requires little or no irrigation. Behind Track 60%
The project upgraded the community’s
landscaping to replace the water-intensive,
40%
non-native turf with native desert plants,
eliminating the need for irrigation while also
20%
supporting local biodiversity. This project
saves 1.6 million gallons of water annually,
0%
enough to fill nearly 2.5 Olympic-sized 2020 2021 2022 2028
pools. The success of this project will help Target
us identify other properties in our portfolio
that can benefit from xeriscaping.
1 Denominator square feet are time-weighted for asset ownership periods.
2 Actual (non-estimated) water data for 2022 is 78.9%.
stessA
yradnuoB-nI
%
gnilcyceR
htiw
Earth Day Inspires Action
Our property management team members
at St. Joseph Medical Center in Kansas
City, Missouri, engaged their tenants and
community members in their second
annual Earth Day Shred/Recycle event.
Approximately 16,000 pounds of paper
and 15 pallets of electronics were properly
disposed, avoiding the landfill.
PROGRESS TOWARD RECYCLING GOAL
TASK FORCE ON CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES (TCFD) REPORT
Strategy
Ventas is committed to managing climate-related risks and opportunities in our portfolio. A summary of our response to the TCFD recommendations and guidance for
A.Climate-Related Risks & Opportunities
disclosures is below, with additional information included in our annual response to the CDP climate change questionnaire.
We have identified climate-related risks and opportunities with the potential to have a substantive financial
or strategic impact on our business over the short-, medium- and long-term. For more information, please
Governance refer to our CDP Climate Change 2023 response – section C2, Risks and Opportunities.
Key climate-related risks and opportunities for Ventas include:
A.Board Oversight
Physical risks - Ventas faces exposure to acute and chronic physical risks across our portfolio such as
The Board of Directors and its Nominating, Governance and Corporate Responsibility (NGCR) Committee
flooding and extreme weather events. These could result in physical and financial losses to Ventas over
provide oversight of our environmental, social and governance (ESG) matters. To enhance the Board’s oversight
the short-, medium- or long-term, such as interruptions to the operations of our business, write-offs, asset
of such matters, in 2022, we expanded the role of the NGCR Committee to include oversight and monitoring
impairment or early retirement of existing assets.
of the Company’s ESG strategies, goals and initiatives, including climate-related matters, and diversity, equity
Market opportunities - Institutional equity and debt investors are the primary source of capital for Ventas,
and inclusion. These changes were reflected in an update to the NGCR Committee’s charter. At the same
and these investors are increasingly incorporating climate impacts into their investment decisions. Ventas’s
time, we renamed the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee to the Nominating, Governance and
integrated and active approach to climate change mitigation and the climate transition may make Ventas
Corporate Responsibility Committee, emphasizing the importance of the NGCR Committee’s role in the Board’s
more attractive to investors, increasing Ventas’s access to capital in the short, medium and long-term.
longstanding oversight and monitoring of the Company’s ESG strategies, goals and initiatives. In some cases,
where appropriate, the full Board is involved in climate-related matters. B.Impact on Our Business
The potential impact of climate-related risks and opportunities is a factor in our business strategy and
At all quarterly NGCR Committee meetings, the Ventas General Counsel and/or VP, Corporate ESG &
financial planning. For example, to harness green building market opportunities, we require all new
Sustainability (VP, ESG) provide updates on ESG strategies, actions and accomplishments. The Chair of the
developments to evaluate the feasibility of LEED® certification and have a goal to obtain LEED® Silver or
Committee then reports to the full Board on ESG matters at each regularly scheduled Board meeting. The
higher certification of our research center developments. The Ventas ESG & Sustainability team conducts
Board also receives an update from management on ESG matters at least once annually and as otherwise
due diligence on climate-related risks and opportunities from potential acquisitions, and is refreshing
warranted. Enterprise risk management (ERM) matters, including any relevant changes to climate-related
Ventas’s short-, medium- and long-term goals on climate-related matters (such as flood risk exposure,
risks, are reported to the Board at each regularly scheduled Board meeting. The NGCR Committee and the
company emissions and energy efficiency). We are also assessing our exposure to physical risks in
full Board provide guidance on strategy and major plans of action related to climate change and other ESG
our U.S. portfolio, including under different representative concentration pathway (RCP) scenarios, to
matters, as appropriate.
determine if changes to our investment, disposition or operational strategies are warranted.
B.The Role of Management
C.Resilience of Our Business to Climate-Related Risks
Ventas’s Chairman and CEO (combined position) has direct oversight of climate-related matters as the
Ventas’s dedicated ESG & Sustainability team regularly assesses climate-related risks and opportunities.
Chair of the ESG Steering Committee and member of our ERM Committee. The ESG Steering Committee
This team collaborates extensively across our business and within the REIT industry to ensure our business
oversees company-wide initiatives to improve our environmental footprint, in addition to corporate social
operations, strategy and planning are responsive to the dynamic transition to a low-carbon economy and
responsibility and governance efforts. The ERM Committee identifies, assesses and monitors enterprise-wide
the latest climate science, in a manner that is consistent with driving long-term shareholder value. Our goal
risks to our company, which may include climate change risks. Our General Counsel and VP, ESG provide
to achieve net zero operational carbon emissions (scopes 1 and 2) by 2040 is in line with a 2°C or lower
regular (quarterly or more frequent) ESG updates to our Executive Leadership Team and obtain input on ESG
global warming scenario and our actions toward achieving this goal inform our approach to routine capital
initiatives, including climate-related risks and opportunities, as appropriate. Our General Counsel also provides
investment, property management, asset management, acquisitions and divestitures.
Sunrise of Bloomingdale quarterly ERM updates to our Executive Leadership Team and obtains input on ERM initiatives, as appropriate. The Assembly
WELL Health Safety Rated, ENERGY STAR® certified LEED® Gold
Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in
VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing
Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 30 Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 31
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency
Risk Management Metrics & Targets
We have a robust process for identifying and assessing climate-related risks. We assess several different A.Metrics
risk types including current and emerging regulation, technology, legal, market, reputation, acute physical Ventas has tracked and publicly disclosed several relevant climate-related metrics since 2018, including
and chronic physical risks. For more information, please refer to our CDP Climate Change 2023 response – greenhouse gas emissions, energy consumption and intensity per square foot, water consumption and
section C2, Risks and Opportunities. intensity per square foot, waste generation and diversion, green building certifications (such as LEED®,
IREM® and ENERGY STAR®) and flood risk exposure. In addition to the data contained in this report, our
A.Process to Identify Climate Risk
detailed environmental data tables can be found on our website.
The Ventas ESG & Sustainability and Corporate Risk Management teams identify and assess climate-
related risks to Ventas on a regular basis through a range of internal and external inputs. For a detailed B.2022 Market-Based GHG Emissions (Recalculated1)
description of the process and how the relative significance of such risks is assessed, see our CDP
Absolute Per 1,000 SF ’21 – ’22 Delta ’18 – ’22 Delta
Climate Change 2023 response, question C2.2.
Scope 1 130,216 1.8 7.1% 1.7%
Scope 2 255,446 3.4 -3.8% -28.3%
B.Process for Managing Climate Risk
Scopes 1 + 2 385,663 5.2 -0.4% -20.4%
Our Business - If a potential substantive impact due to climate-related risk is identified, it is shared with
Scope 3 391,933 12.7 -0.1% -17.8%
our ESG Steering Committee and our ERM Committee, who will discuss developing a mitigation plan.
Our Properties - Our Corporate Risk Management team leverages a third-party tool to assess 1 In 2022, Ventas recalculated its 2018 base year and all subsequent year emissions following the GHG Protocol’s fixed base year,
all year approach. The recalculation was triggered by the accumulation of several acquisitions and dispositions since 2018. The
weather-related climate risks by applying algorithms, data analytics and scenario analysis to our portfolio 2022 portfolio has been adjusted to exclude dispositions and gross up acquisitions as if owned for the full year in 2022.
over short-, medium- and long-term time horizons. This data and analysis informs our business strategy
and operations. C.Targets
Our climate-related goals are summarized below and assessed annually in this report (see pages 18-19
C.Climate Risk Process Integration
and 26-29). For more details and explanation of our environmental control boundary, see our detailed
Ventas's ERM Committee manages our integrated and multi-disciplinary company-wide risk management
environmental data tables on our website.
process. The ERM Committee is chaired by our General Counsel and includes our CEO; CFO; SVP &
• GHG Emissions:
Chief Information Officer; SVP, Deputy General Counsel; and VP, Internal Audit. The ERM Committee
is convened at least quarterly to review and update our top risks, including climate-related risks, which – Reduce scopes 1, 2 and 3 emissions on an absolute basis by 30% by 2030 (2018 base year)
are monitored and assessed by our Corporate Risk and ESG & Sustainability teams. Existing risks are – Achieve net zero operational carbon emissions (scopes 1 and 2) by 2040
evaluated for changes and mitigation strategies are updated as needed. New risks are discussed and
• Energy: Reduce intensity (MWh/1,000 SF) for properties in environmental control boundary by 20% over
evaluated for potential consideration as a top risk. Results are discussed with the Ventas Board of
10 years (2018 base year)
Directors at quarterly board meetings as needed.
• Water: Reduce intensity (cubic meters/1,000 SF) for properties in environmental control boundary by
20% over 10 years (2018 base year)
• Waste: Recycling programs at 100% of assets within environmental control boundary by 2028
• Achieve LEED® Silver or better on 100% of new research center developments
• Evaluate the cost and feasibility of LEED® or equivalent for all new developments
Atria Cinco Ranch • Maintain less than 10% of annual NOI from properties in high flood risk areas (FEMA Zone A) Sunrise La Costa
ENERGY STAR® certified WELL Health Safety Rated, ENERGY STAR® certified
Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in
VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing
Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 32 Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 33
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency
Our expert active Asset Management teams oversee our portfolio and engage with operators and tenants to
drive performance. This effort is bolstered by operational excellence across our enterprise teams including
Investments, Finance & Accounting, Legal, ESG & Sustainability, Corporate Risk Management, Information
Technology, Communications, Human Resources and Lillibridge Healthcare Services, a leading property
management and leasing platform and wholly owned subsidiary of Ventas.
Outpatient Medical Tenant Satisfaction
All Ventas owned and operated outpatient medical buildings participate in yearly tenant satisfaction surveys
measured by Kingsley Associates, an independent real estate industry leader in benchmarking tenant
satisfaction. In 2022, our outpatient medical portfolio ranked in the 93rd percentile in Kingsley Index,
outperforming the vast majority of our peers in the industry and improving our overall tenant satisfaction for
the fourth straight year. We are proud of the significant progress we have made in these categories and strive
to build on our high tenant satisfaction levels.
Outpatient Medical Tenant Satisfaction
93%
100%
75%
75%
51%
50%
25%
0%
2019 2020 2021 2022
Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in
VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing
Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 34 Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 35
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency
elitnecreP
xednI
yelsgniK
OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE
The Lillibridge Playbook Drives Excellence in Tenant Satisfaction
As market leaders in property management and leasing, Lillibridge’s outstanding operating capabilities and infrastructure
drive superior tenant satisfaction and property performance.
Playbook Highlights Results
• Focused on four key survey categories: • Five years continuous improvement in overall tenant satisfaction
– Management communication • Recognized in Kingsley’s Elite 5, which celebrates the top five
– Management problem resolution organizations with highest overall tenant satisfaction across
their portfolios
– Cleaning overall satisfaction
• Thirteen properties achieved Kingsley 100% Club, earning a perfect
– Maintenance/engineering responds within 24 hours
5.0 overall tenant satisfaction score for two years in a row
• Formal process for best practice sharing across property teams
• Top quartile ranking in all key measurement areas
• Property level action plans around each category, which incorporate
best practices
79%
Best Practice in Practice: Sharing Successful Tenant
Appreciation Programs
The Inspiration for Tenant Appreciation program was created to showcase successful tenant
event ideas from across Lillibridge to inspire and support our commitment to creating exceptional
tenant environments.
Duke Health Center South Durham
Kingsley 100% Club, ENERGY STAR® certified
Senior Housing Operator Collaboration and Engagement Powered by Ventas Operational InsightsTM HEALTH, WELL-BEING & SAFETY
The safety of our buildings, our employees and the thousands of people who use and visit our properties
Ventas Operational Insights (OI)TM is an industry-leading active asset management platform “Ventas’s insights and analytics enable us, as
every day is a core component of our commitment to long-term sustainability and performance. In addition
that blends our deep operational expertise and advanced data analytics to engage our senior operators, to deliver better experiences for our
to embedding safety into our own business operations, we partner with leading operators who embody our
housing operators and enhance performance in pursuit of our Right Market, Right Asset
residents and families and better performance
commitment to health and safety.
and Right OperatorTM strategy. The Ventas OITM platform provides our team with dynamic access
from our communities. When you have strong,
to hundreds of millions of data points – over 200,000 new operating and sales data points are
Health, Well-Being & Safety at Lillibridge
collaborative relationships between owners
added daily – that we can interpret to drive asset-level value creation priorities and enhance the
resident experience. We engage directly with our operator functional teams to share these insights and operators, everyone wins.” Lillibridge has developed robust programs, procedures and activities to establish a culture that underpins the
and agree on next steps. In 2022, we conducted more than 70 Ventas OITM sessions with senior highest safety standards and practices.
Severine Petras
housing operators, sharing actionable insights on both their specific operations and key industry
Chief Executive Officer, Priority Life Care
challenges to further drive results.
Safety Training Safety Moments
Safety training activities are managed by training All monthly meetings at Lillibridge begin with
OPERATIONAL
SENIOR HOUSING STRATEGY coordinators. Training is compulsory for all a “safety moment” that reinforces the value
INSIGHTSTM
Lillibridge employees upon hire and annually of safety as a priority. Safety moments may
thereafter, with specialized training required as address seasonal issues – such as summer
VENTAS OPERATIONAL INSIGHTS (OI)TM
dictated by specific job responsibilities and as outdoor cooking – which merit specific safety
Our proprietary data and analytics platform mandated by the U.S. government’s Occupational considerations. They also address work-related
supports our strategy, identifying and driving value Right Safety and Health Administration’s (OSHA) code safety concerns, such as how to safely store
creation at the intersection of the right markets, of safety standards. Maintenance personnel combustibles or ladder safety.
Markets
right assets and right operators. participate in a technical training curriculum
tailored to each position.
STRATEGIC LEVERS
Advanced Active Real Estate & Comprehensive Safety Recognition Safety Audits
Market Selection Asset Management Operating Alignment
Lillibridge holds an annual two-day leadership During 2022, the Lillibridge Buildings and
meeting, called Market Leaders, which devotes Engineering team conducted a 68-point safety
Right
Right
a full day to safety and engineering matters, audit at each of its properties, focused on life safety
COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGES
Assets
Operators including outside speakers and safety-focused and compliance with OSHA. As a result of this
DATA DRIVEN IN-HOUSE
awards and recognitions. high-impact exercise, the safety audit has been
INSIGHTS & OPERATING
EXECUTION EXPERTISE standardized and will be conducted annually by
each building’s management team going forward.
Seton Medical Park Tower
LEED® Gold, ENERGY STAR® certified
Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in
VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing
Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 36 Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 37
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency
Health, Well-Being & Safety in Senior Housing RESPONSIBLE GROWTH
Our senior housing operating partners uphold high safety standards and practices that promote the safety and well-being of those who live and work in our communities.
Biodiversity Impacts
We believe our business, investors and other key
stakeholders benefit from our integrated approach to
Biodiversity has not been identified as a high impact material topic for Ventas, given that we primarily
sustainable growth. This approach generates long-term
Sunrise Senior Living Earns WELL Health Safety Rating The Arbor Company Prioritizes Senior Safety During Climate Disasters acquire existing properties in urban and suburban locations and most of our development is
success for Ventas and a lasting positive impact on the
brownfield redevelopment or urban infill, which serves to revitalize communities. However, we support
Our partner, Sunrise Senior Living, earned the WELL Health Safety Rating Our operating partner, The Arbor Company, displayed our shared commitment people and the communities that rely on our properties.
biodiversity efforts where appropriate for our business. When considering new acquisitions, we obtain
across its entire North American portfolio, recognizing its leadership in health, to health, well-being and safety when Hurricane Ian struck Barrington Terrace of To support sustainable growth, we integrate ESG due
Phase I reports to understand environmental impacts and exposures. Our standing buildings and
well-being and safety. To achieve the WELL Health Safety rating, Sunrise met Fort Meyers, Florida, in September 2022. With just 12 hours’ notice, the team diligence in our acquisition, development, redevelopment
developments are typically not in or near any sensitive habitats or ecosystems, but in the very limited
rigorous requirements demonstrating a proven and consistent commitment to safely evacuated all 121 residents. Twenty-five of their employees traveled and and disposition processes, and in the selection of
cases in which we have encountered such habitats or ecosystems, we take care to appropriately limit
best practices in cleaning and sanitation procedures; emergency preparedness; stayed with the residents for days to continue providing 24-hour care. When new operators and partners. This comprehensive
and mitigate impacts from our activities.
health service resources including mental health; innovation; and stakeholder it was determined residents could not return to the community, The Arbor process entails:
engagement and communication. Sunrise Senior Living operates nearly 100 Company worked tirelessly in partnership with other leading Ventas operators
• Evaluating each potential business opportunity relative
Ventas senior living communities. and identified housing for all residents in less than a week. During that time, ESG Due Diligence Assessment
to our ESG priorities and goals
employees went on-site to recover resident belongings and ensure their safe
arrival to temporary homes. The Arbor Company kept employees on the payroll • Conducting property condition reports and Phase 1 Acquisitions Developments & Partnerships & Dispositions
for five months following Hurricane Ian and offered continued opportunities environmental site assessments for all new acquisitions Redevelopments Joint Ventures
by engaging them in renovation and repair work until the building’s reopening • Assessing the climate risks of new and existing sites
in August 2023.
Sustainable Development Practices Energy,
Human
Emissions, Water &
Rights
Waste Efficiency
Ventas continues to be a leader in environmentally and
socially responsible development in collaboration with our Health &
Environmental
best-in-class partners, which is essential to promoting the Data Safety
long-term value of our buildings. We do this by:
• Pursuing green building certifications
• Developing urban brownfields and infill sites
Emergency Diversity,
Plans Equity &
• Sourcing local, representative labor during construction
Inclusion
• Engaging with community leaders to host apprenticeships,
“I’m so grateful to be home” was the sentiment job fairs and educational workshops in partnership with
shared from the first resident to return to local area schools and businesses
Barrington Terrace of Fort Meyers. Physical Tenant/
• Investing in public spaces, community gathering areas and Risk Exposure Resident
Satisfaction
infrastructure upgrades Sustainable
Building
Certifications
Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in
VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing
Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 38 Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 39
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency
PROPERTY SPOTLIGHT
Our uCity Square Priorities
Supporting strong communities
Ventas made a $9 million gift to support the establishment of a new
Ventas continues to be a leader in environmentally and
K-8 public school facility on the western end of the uCity campus. Developing urban
The state-of-the-art facility houses two Philadelphia neighborhood brownfields and infill sites socially responsible development in collaboration with our
public schools.
best-in-class partners, which is essential to promoting the
Ventas partnered with long-term value of our buildings. Our development at uCity
Square exemplifies this and includes the following features:
Wexford Science +
3401
MARKET
Technology and The Access
University City Science Connected to all major forms of public transit
3440
MARKET
Center in Philadelphia, Proximity to restaurants, retailers, residences and
Pennsylvania, to build uCity ONE UCITY MA36 R7 K5 ET Engaging with community outdoor green spaces
leaders to host
Square into the region's apprenticeships, job fairs
Inclusion
and educational workshops
premier innovation address. in partnership with local area Engine of job creation for a diverse talent pool
schools and businesses
Our unique approach to 3711 Utilizing and growing M/WBE contractors in the
MARKET
sustainable growth and 3737 Philadelphia market
MARKET Game-Changing Innovators at uCity Square
development comes to life in
Innovation
this vibrant knowledge At the intersection of world-class universities, The 2023 Nobel Prize in Medicine was awarded to University of Pennsylvania
community where academic medical centers and research institutions researchers Dr. Katalin Karikó and Dr. Drew Weissman for their pioneering work in
messenger RNA therapeutics, which provided a lifesaving vaccine platform amid
universities, medicine and Two million square feet of existing mixed-use
Leading in green building
the global COVID-19 pandemic.
design with LEED® Gold facilities, pre-built suites and flexible lab and office in
research collide to drive
Certified buildings that are
state-of-the-art facilities
game-changing innovation highly energy and water Both Pfizer/BioNTech and Moderna utilized the mRNA technology developed by Dr. Karikó and
efficient
and strengthen the Impact Dr. Weissman in their rapid development of effective vaccinations against COVID-19. These
surrounding communities. Investing in public spaces, S reo pu rerc si en ng t alo tc iva el , l abor A knowledge community built on a foundation of vaccines protected millions of people around the world against severe illness and death from
community gathering areas research, discovery and entrepreneurial activity the virus.
during construction
and infrastructure upgrades
Wide-ranging space offerings to accommodate
Dr. Weissman is now spearheading the University of Pennsylvania’s new Penn Institute for RNA
E PX RI O:S PT EIN RG
T
IV EE SNTAS
every phase of a company’s growth
Innovation, a multi-disciplinary research effort located at One uCity Square.
Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in
VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing
Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 40 Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 41
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency
DE&I SPOTLIGHT COMMUNITY INVESTMENT & PHILANTHROPY
Ventas has a long history of supporting non-profit organizations and institutions that drive the vibrancy and resiliency of the communities where we do business.
Promoting Opportunities for Minority and Investment &
The Ventas Charitable Foundation was established in 2006 to support this mission through marquee partnerships, our employee charitable fund and civic and
Women-Owned Businesses
Financial community engagement.
The Investment & Financial pillar of the Ventas DE&I framework incorporates
objectives and actions to promote diversity, equity and inclusion in our
procurement, development and investment processes. These actions
Marquee Partnerships
expand and strengthen the pool of essential contractors, suppliers and
other vendors available to our company and the real estate industry more Long-term, strategic partnerships with organizations
broadly. In many cases, they also benefit and strengthen the communities that meet a significant community need aligned to our
where we do business. Strong vendor relationships and strong demographically driven business and emphasizing health
communities are good for our business. and well-being (particularly for seniors), education, racial
equity and social justice.
Key Focus Areas
• Expanding relationships with minority and women-owned business
enterprises (M/WBEs)
Employee Charitable Fund
• Engaging with our service providers and business partners to support
Financial contributions to organizations nominated directly
their DE&I efforts
by employees, recognizing causes that are important
and meaningful to our team, and supporting causes
Notable Accomplishments
where employees volunteer their time or are otherwise
personally involved.
Achieved 38% M/WBE spend for U.S. development projects Participated in The Real Estate Roundtable’s focus group on increasing
(exceeding our 25% goal) in 2022 M/WBE spend across the real estate industry
Civic & Community Engagement
Spent $28 million in 2022 with M/WBEs across our Established systems to track addressable M/WBE spend for current and
Active participation in our extended communities through
development portfolio ongoing development projects with over 300 M/WBE vendors, and continue
volunteerism, sponsorships and collaboration with
to enhance data collection and analysis in 2023 through other projects
organizations that work to meet critical community needs
in areas such as education, health, diversity, inclusion and
the environment.
Joined the National Association of Minority Contractors (NAMC), the oldest minority construction trade association
in the United States. Through a network of local chapters and in collaboration with strategic and corporate
partnerships, NAMC assists its millions of members with building capacity by providing access to opportunity,
advocacy and contractor development training.
Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in
VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing
Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 42 Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 43
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency
Marquee Partnerships Ventas Employee Charitable Fund
Our Marquee Partners are organizations whose purposes and activities align with our business Our legacy of community investment includes supporting causes and organizations that are important to our
and values. We maximize long-term relationships with our partners including: colleagues. Through the Ventas Employee Charitable Fund of the Ventas Charitable Foundation, employees
can nominate non-profits to receive grants of up to $4,000 each year. Since its inception, the Ventas
Employee Charitable Fund has supported over 100 organizations, focused on services ranging from disease
Partners in Progress: Global Institute
prevention and research, to youth education services, to mental health support.
on Innovation Districts
Greater Chicago Food Depository (GCFD):
Civic & Community Engagement
Ventas is a significant supporter of Chicago’s food
Innovation districts are integrated ecosystems
bank and its programs to feed seniors at risk of
that are built to thrive on their close proximity to We encourage civic and community engagement through volunteerism, sponsorships and collaboration with
food insecurity.
research institutions, mature companies, start-ups organizations that meet vital needs in areas such as education; health and well-being; diversity, equity and
and scale-ups, co-working spaces and supportive inclusion, and the environment. Many of these engagement activities are organized by Ventas’s Employee
intermediaries. GIID seeks to identify how districts Resource Groups (ERGs), such as:
transform into new engines of city and regional
economic growth, and new systems for social • YPN Volunteer Days: The Young Professionals • Celebrating Pride Month with MOVE: Minorities
Real Estate Executive Council (REEC): inclusion. As a founding partner and steering Network spearheads volunteer events across the of Ventas Empowered (MOVE) celebrated Pride
Ventas is a founding partner of REEC, the premier committee member, Ventas’s support enables company to engage our colleagues in support of Month by recognizing and supporting the LGBTQ+
trade association for minorities at the executive GIID to identify and monitor the global growth of our local communities. Beneficiary organizations community. MOVE hosted an inspirational Lunch
level in commercial real estate. Through our innovation districts, facilitate communication and have included The Greater Chicago Food & Learn program with a representative from The
involvement, we seek to promote the interests of shared learnings, and foster collective engagement on Depository in Chicago, Single Parent Resource Ali Forney Center (AFC), which supports homeless
minority executives and diversify and strengthen the growth, capital and governance of innovation districts. Center in Louisville and Meals on Wheels in New LGBTQ+ youth across the country with housing,
talent pipeline in our industry.
York. Our Property Management & Leasing team comprehensive services and unwavering support.
members partner with YPN to engage local Team members in our corporate offices worked
charities in their individual communities, tied together to assemble nearly 100 sanitary kits for
together by a friendly competition rewarding the young people in AFC’s care. The group also packed
property teams who garner the most donations. another 100 pride kits to support participants
Global Institute on Innovation Districts
in the Chicago and New York Pride Parades
(GIID): Ventas is a founding partner and steering
through our partners at Covenant House, another
committee member of this global-reaching,
national organization providing safe spaces for
non-profit organization dedicated to conducting
LGBTQ+ youth.
independent and practice-oriented research on
innovation districts, new geographies of innovation
emerging primarily in cities and urbanizing areas.
Bailey Power Plant, Innovation Quarter
LEED® Gold
Et voles ipit estiate eos ipsunt laborpo ruptat.
Uptus ini re cuptatem exeria derferiores
Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in
VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing
Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 44 Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 45
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency
DE&I SPOTLIGHT
Promoting DE&I Beyond Ventas Beyond The Ventas Holiday Giving Drive
The Beyond Ventas pillar of the Ventas DE&I framework seeks to positively Ventas Since 2021, Ventas has sponsored a Holiday
impact society and strengthen communities through DE&I-related philanthropic Giving Drive to support schools in underinvested
and community investment efforts. We focus on initiatives where we can have communities and neighborhoods where we do
the most impact and that we believe will contribute the most to our long-term business. In 2022, Ventas expanded this initiative
success, with an emphasis on efforts that benefit our industry, the communities to broaden our impact in support of students in
where we do business and our stakeholder groups, such as seniors. We need. We focused this effort on three areas:
believe these efforts make our business and our industry more resilient.
• Expanding our reach: The Holiday Giving
Key Focus Areas Drive expanded to support more students in
communities where Ventas does business,
• Promoting a strong and expanding talent pool in the real estate industry
benefiting more than 1,500 students at
• Promoting the communities where we do business through community
elementary and middle schools in West
development and service
Philadelphia and Baltimore.
• Leveraging our corporate giving via our charitable foundation and
• Broadening participation: Participation was
corporate donations
open to all Ventas employees, the Ventas Board
of Directors, Wexford Science & Technology –
Notable Accomplishments
our exclusive development partner of our West
Sponsored the NAIOP real estate case competition at Institutionalized the Company's Holiday Giving Drive as a launchpad for Philadelphia and Baltimore research properties –
Drexel University. broader initiatives to support the communities where we do business. and the UMB BioPark Campus. The beneficiary
schools reside in the neighborhoods surrounding
these properties, allowing us to directly impact
Furthered our partnership with REEC by participating in the Continued to expand relationships with Historically Black Colleges and
the communities where we do business.
Real Estate Exchange (REEX) Summer Program for the second Universities (HBCUs) and professional organizations, including participating
consecutive year, a commercial real estate program for minority in career fairs at Howard University and Hampton University and sponsoring • Amplifying our impact: Ventas employees
high school students aimed at addressing the lack of diverse a commercial real estate boot camp at Morgan State University. and our community contributed the equivalent
representation in the commercial real estate industry. Ventas of $15,000 in supplies and gifts, which was
hosted three summer events benefitting REEX cohorts at MIT, matched dollar-for-dollar by the Ventas
NYU/Columbia and Howard University. Programming included Charitable Foundation.
site tours of Ventas-owned research centers, industry panels
and networking events hosted by our employees.
Et voles ipit estiate eos ipsunt laborpo ruptat.
Uptus ini re cuptatem exeria derferiores
Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in
VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing
Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 46 Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 47
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency
EMPOWERING
80% >40%
EXCEPTIONAL
participation in annual of employees have been
PEOPLE
employee engagement promoted from within
survey
Ventas has a high-performing culture made up of thoughtful and energetic
people – committed to our goals and to each other. Our team thrives on rigor,
relationships and respect. We work together to deliver outsized success for our
business, our investors and other stakeholders.
>50% 8,600+
We excel at what we do by investing in the best talent across disciplines and
industries. We encourage collaboration, recognize individuals for their unique
strengths and continually invest in our employees and their health and well-
management positions hours of employee
being, all while upholding our commitment to our core values.
held by women training and programming
We want our people to grow and develop meaningful careers at Ventas.
in 2022
Our human capital management program is designed to attract individuals
who will thrive in our culture and empower them to succeed personally
and professionally.
In this section:
75%
50 Talent Attraction & Retention
52 Employee Health, Well-Being & Safety
of eligible leaders participated in our leadership
54 Employee Engagement
development program since 2022
56 Growth & Development
58 Diversity, Equity & Inclusion at Ventas
Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in
VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing
Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 48 Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 49
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency
TALENT ATTRACTION & RETENTION
DE&I SPOTLIGHT
At Ventas, we aim to attract and retain people who will thrive in our culture, drive our success and further our industry leadership. We do this by offering competitive People
Promoting Equality in Our Hiring and
compensation, a market-leading comprehensive benefits program and an engaging work environment that offers rewarding professional experiences. We provide
Talent Development Efforts
significant growth and development opportunities that expand the capabilities of our colleagues, accelerate their careers and contribute to and amplify our strong
culture. Our value proposition is simple: we empower exceptional people to do their best work.
The People pillar of the Ventas DE&I framework is aimed at embedding
DE&I throughout the employee life cycle. Research shows – and our own
The following priority elements of our human capital management program enable us to attract and retain top talent.
experience has proven – that diverse groups achieve better outcomes.
Providing fair and equal access to opportunities motivates our employees
and supports our commitment to excellence. Our actions in support of
Human Capital Management Program
diversity and equity enable us to attract and retain the best talent, empower
our employees to achieve their full potential and create a lasting positive
impact for our investors and other stakeholders.
Key Focus Areas
Employee Health,
• Inclusionary hiring practices
Well-Being &
Employee • Diverse and inclusive leadership
Safety
Engagement
• Fair and equitable pay practices
• Equitable promotion, transfer and professional development opportunities
Notable Accomplishments
Continued to expand sourcing Implemented a tracking system
channels for diverse candidates by to monitor interview slates for
participating in several career fairs representation of a diverse set of
and university programs perspectives
Developed a summer internship Continued requiring unconscious
program composed of students bias training for interviewers, with
Diversity,
Growth & from a diverse set of backgrounds 100% of interviewers and new hires
Equity &
Development and enhanced programming completing the training in 2022
Inclusion at
designed to provide experiential
Ventas
learning, professional development
and mentoring
Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in
VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing
Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 50 Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 51
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency
EMPLOYEE HEALTH, Investing in Our Employees’ Overall Well-Being
WELL-BEING & SAFETY Our market-leading comprehensive benefits program1 is designed to support employees and their families
in meeting their personal goals and needs.
At Ventas, we prioritize the health, well-being
and safety of our employees with comprehensive Medical Plans Industry- Legal Insurance Employee Discount
leading medical plans with Affordable access to a Program Access to
benefits to support their physical, financial and
built-in Wellness Program at network of attorneys for discounts on wide variety
mental wellness – and that of their families
low employee cost personal legal matters of items and services
and loved ones. Through workplace safety
administration and training and education Dental & Vision Plans Paid Time Off (PTO) Employee Charitable
Generous and flexible paid Fund Financial donations
practices, we invest in safe and healthy work Excellent plans at low
time off plans to non-profit organizations
environments both in our corporate offices and employee cost
nominated by employees
in our approximately 1,400 properties. These
Employee Referral Bonus
investments keep Ventas at the forefront in 401(k) Tax-deferred and Cash incentive for referring Tuition Reimbursement
attracting and retaining world-class talent and Roth 401(k) plan options new hires Financial support for pursuing
with company match continuing education
position us for future success.
Employee Assistance
Flexible Spending Account Program (EAP) Confidential Training & Development
Workplace Safety: Employee (FSA) Flexible savings support for work, personal Dedicated programs to
Lost Time Incidents accounts for medical and or family issues at no cost enhance professional and
dependent care expenses personal development
We endeavor to make our workplaces secure Employee Stock
Cancer & Specified
Health Savings Purchase Plan (ESPP)
and hazard-free through robust workplace safety
Disease Additional
Account (HSA) Health Employee Stock Purchase
protocols, training and education practices. We financial support for
savings account for Plan provides opportunity
have consistently maintained a lost time incident life-changing diagnosis
medical expenses with to purchase Ventas stock
rate below the industry average since we began employer contributions at a discount
Spot Awards Ability to
tracking the measure in 2015, reflecting our
recognize colleagues with
AD&D and Life Insurance Parental Leave 12 weeks
commitment to safety and the comprehensive
a small monetary award
Company-paid accidental of 100% salary continuation
safety training program provided to Lillibridge
death and dismemberment for primary caregivers and
employees. In 2022, we had two lost time Pet Insurance Healthcare
insurance for employees and 2 weeks additional PTO for
incidents equating to an employee lost time life insurance for employees, secondary caregivers plan for furry, feathered or
scaled family members
frequency rate of 0.5 per 100 full-time spouses and children
equivalent workers. Adoption Assistance Hybrid Work Schedule
Disability Short- and Financial assistance to 2 days working from home
long-term disability plans help manage adoption and 3 days in office, plus 4
at no cost process costs remote work weeks per year
1 Generally, all employees regularly scheduled to work 30 or more hours per week are eligible to participate in the Ventas Benefits Plan on their
date of hire. Part-time employees working 20 or more hours are eligible to participate in a limited number of benefit plans including paid time off,
parental leave and 401(k).
Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in
VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing
Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 52 Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 53
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency
EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT Employee Resource Groups
Our ERGs bring employees together in a collaborative and engaging environment
We foster an environment where our employees are engaged and challenged through rewarding professional
that supports professional development, career management, cross-departmental
experiences, a robust employee feedback process and organic employee-led programming. We continue to
collaboration and mentoring. Our ERGs are employee-led, open to all employees and
attract and retain the best and brightest employees by closely listening to, learning from and evolving with Young Professionals Network 5K/10K
Mentorship Programs bolstered by Leadership Team sponsorship. Ventas currently has four primary ERGs, each
our colleagues. Challenge: Turning Miles Into Meals
of which plays an important role in fostering a sense of community and belonging within
We support formal and informal mentorship During the three-week “feel-good, do-good” challenge
and beyond Ventas.
Employee Engagement Surveys engagements at Ventas. This includes an sponsored by YPN, colleagues collectively walked, ran
informal Lunch & Link program, designed and biked 1,850 miles. Each 5K distance earned a $25
Each year, Ventas conducts an employee engagement survey and three pulse surveys, one of which is to create networking and mentoring donation from the Ventas Charitable Foundation to Meals
focused on DE&I. Our annual employee engagement survey leverages Gallup’s Q12®, an industry leading connections between new employees and on Wheels for a total of $9,250, translating to nearly
methodology, which identifies what our employees need to succeed and thrive at Ventas. a diverse group of leaders. We also have a 1,000 meals donated to seniors in need. During the
formal mentorship program through REEC, event, YPN hosted group run/walk events in each of our
The results of the annual engagement survey are rigorously analyzed and shared with the Leadership
corporate offices to encourage participation and provide
which pairs Ventas employees with Black
Team and disseminated throughout the organization. Action plans are developed to address needs
opportunities for colleagues to earn miles together.
commercial real estate executives outside
and opportunities informed by the employee feedback. Based on this feedback, we made a number of
The Women’s Network is dedicated to The Young Professionals Network
of Ventas.
enhancements in 2022 including:
the success and engagement of women (YPN) supports the development of young
or those who identify as women through professionals through informal mentoring,
Work Life Balance Career & Professional professional development, networking social activities and training opportunities.
Development Training and mentoring.
• Expanded flexible work options and
parental leave eligibility • Introduced leader development
training with participation from
Culture 75% of eligible leaders
The Diversity Network Relaunches as MOVE
• Re-introduced the Lunch & Learn • Promoted and/or internally In February 2023, MOVE – formerly known as the Diversity
program to enable better visibility into transferred 27 employees Network – was re-introduced to the company with an
all areas of the business event to educate employees on the group’s redefined
Communications mission and to celebrate Black History Month. The event
• Introduced the Lunch & Link
program to increase networking and • Re-launched enhanced Ventas featured a video highlighting some of our Black employees
mentoring opportunities for new Connected newsletter who shared their unique experiences and perspectives,
in addition to refreshments from local Black-owned
employees • Started new in-person Live Connect2Lou focuses on enhancing the Minorities of Ventas Empowered (MOVE) is
businesses. Since then, MOVE has curated content,
• Enhanced the Ventas Speaker Series Leadership Updates series Louisville office’s connectivity and visibility dedicated to the engagement and success shared resources and hosted events to celebrate Asian
within Ventas and the local community, of diverse employees through professional
to bring in leading CEOs and thought American and Pacific Islander (AAPI) Heritage Month, Pride
including through philanthropy and cross- development, networking and celebration
leaders with diverse experiences Month and Hispanic Heritage month. With renewed spirit
office events. of unique perspectives and experiences.
and backgrounds and energy, MOVE is fostering an inclusive environment for
all employees.
Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in
VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing
Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 54 Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 55
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency
GROWTH & DEVELOPMENT Strategic Leadership Meetings
We believe an engaged, aligned and cohesive leadership team is essential to
Our dynamic environment creates opportunities to accelerate our employees’ careers which contributes
performance. In November 2022, the Ventas Leadership Team gathered for an
to our company’s success. We develop talent through robust training and development programs and
offsite meeting in Austin, Texas – the first fully in-person leadership event since
comprehensive performance management. In addition, we host a well-attended speaker series for all
the beginning of the pandemic. The two-and-a-half-day program provided an
Ventas Provides Robust Internal
employees featuring experts, executives and thought leaders from a variety of sectors and backgrounds to
opportunity for the leaders to coalesce around the company’s strategic objectives
Promotion Opportunities
share their insights and inspire our colleagues.
and learn and grow together as a leadership team. The group benefitted from
Nearly half of all employees at Ventas today
world-class guest speakers and expert facilitators as they worked together to
Training & Development
have been promoted internally. Since
codify the company’s foundational principles and align on strategic priorities.
the beginning of December 2021,
The primary outcomes of the meeting included:
Our employees’ work experiences are bolstered by an extensive collection of training and leadership
58 employees or 13% of our 2022
development programs. In 2022, 100% of employees participated in more than 8,600 hours of in-person headcount received a formal promotion • Aligning the Leadership Team around the company’s strategic objectives
and online trainings (averaging 21 hours per person), covering a variety of skills and awareness modules.
or meaningful career mobility.
• Enhancing communication and establishing the priorities and working
Employees also have access to more than 15,000 on-demand/online learning courses to enhance their
paradigm for the year ahead
skills independently.
• Equipping the Leadership Team with tools to better embed the company’s
Employee Training Hours by Category
foundational principles and culture throughout the organization
• Driving strong cohesion within the Leadership Team, enhancing
Conferences & Webinars Integrity & Compliance
effective management
7% 17%
The Leadership Team gathers twice a year in-person to maintain alignment and
momentum, with interim meetings and updates throughout the year. The spring
Professional/
meeting was held in Chicago in June 2023 and included strategic sessions as
Technical
well as a leadership effectiveness workshop, guided by expert facilitators.
Instructor
Led Training 8,600+
Leadership Development Training Program
11%
Total Hours In 2022, we launched a new Leadership Development Training program for all
Diversity, Equity
corporate directors and managers, focused on leadership skills, coaching and
& Inclusion
mentoring, making use of emotional intelligence and leadership style assessment.
Online Courses 11%
The attendees also benefited from sessions with senior leadership speakers who
7%
discussed real-life success stories and struggles. To date, 75% of Ventas leaders
have participated in the multi-day program.
Leadership
Development
15%
Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in
VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing
Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 56 Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 57
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency
DIVERSITY, EQUITY & INCLUSION AT VENTAS A Legacy of Leadership in Diversity
Within Ventas, we strive to create an inclusive, equitable and diverse environment where there is a strong feeling of belonging and openness to different perspectives,
2017
which we believe drives better business outcomes.
Read more about our DE&I framework on page 10 and see our EEO-1 report on the company website. Named to 20/20 Women on Boards,
maintaining standing through
current year
Ventas Workforce Demographics
(as of December 31, 2022)
2018
Gender Employee Age
Became the first REIT to join the
Ventas Total Leadership
CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion
12%
Under 30
21%
47% 34% 30-39 2019
Female Female 25%
53% 66% 40-49 Became signatory to United Nations
Male Male 29%
50-59 Women’s Empowerment Principles
13%
Over 60 Named to Bloomberg Gender Equity
Index (GEI) for first time, maintaining
standing through current year
Employee Ethnicity
Manager and Above Board of Directors 2021
3% Became a founding diversity
Two or more races
5% partner for REEC (only REIT to be a
Hispanic or Latino
52% 36% founding diversity partner)
Female Female 9%
Black or African American
48% 64%
6%
Male Male
Asian
<1% 2022
American Indian or Alaska Native
77%
White Earned Bronze in Nareit’s fourth
annual DE&I recognition awards
Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in
VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing
Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 58 Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 59
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency
DE&I SPOTLIGHT
Integrating DE&I Into Our Company DNA Culture
“Through programmed activities, such
as the Ventas Speaker Series, and
The Culture pillar of the Ventas DE&I framework aims to advance an
inclusive culture where employees’ unique perspectives are embraced and grass-roots initiatives spearheaded by
celebrated within and beyond our walls. We believe that teams are more our employee-led resource groups,
engaged and perform better when there is a sense of belonging, openness
we continue to see strong momentum
to different perspectives and employees experience equitable access
in DE&I at Ventas. When these things
to opportunities. A strong, engaged culture is an essential driver of our
take hold organically, minds open and
long-term success.
meaningful change happens.”
Key Focus Areas
Tim Sanders
• Engaging employees through programming and training that promotes a
Senior Investment Officer, Co-Chair of the Ventas
culture of equality and inclusivity DE&I Committee
• Supporting Employee Resource Groups (ERGs)
• Communicating and celebrating our efforts internally and externally
• Taking our pulse through an annual survey
Notable Accomplishments
Promoted an inclusive culture through regularly held senior Completed internal assessment and ERG Best Practices Guide to
leadership-led diversity programming, including Ventas Speaker support new and existing resource groups
Series events in celebration of Black History Month and AAPI
Heritage Month
Celebrating Black History Month
As part of our celebration of Black History Month, Ventas hosted an in-person and live-streamed
Achieved over 1,100 hours of training and programing in Published the Ventas EEO-1 report on the company website for the
conversation between Loop Capital Founder, Chairman and CEO James Reynolds, Jr. and our
2022, with unconscious bias training required for all new hires first time to provide transparency regarding the make-up of our
Chairman and CEO Debra A. Cafaro. In a wide-ranging conversation, James Reynolds discussed
and interviewers employee base
his path to founding a dynamic and diverse global financial services firm, the leadership lessons
he has learned throughout his career and his success in building high performing teams.
Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in
VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing
Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 60 Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 61
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency
LEADING IN
GOVERNANCE AND 5 54%
TRANSPARENCY new members appointed Board diversity
to the Ventas Board of by gender or ethnicity
Directors since 2019
Our strong corporate governance and commitment to ethics, integrity and
transparency serve as the foundation for sustainable long-term value creation.
We take a rigorous approach to sustainability and governance which positions
Ventas as a leader, and we regularly engage with our investors, partners,
industry groups, peer companies and others to share our expertise and 70% 100%
experience and to advance our shared success.
of outstanding shares employee compliance
64 Board of Directors
included in Board-led on annual key policy
65 Corporate Governance Best Practices
shareholder outreach acknowledgements
66 ESG Governance
68 Risk Management
69 Cybersecurity & Data Privacy
70 Political Contributions
71 Ethics & Compliance
99/100
points earned in 2022
GRESB Public Disclosure Assessment
Phoenix Biomedical Campus Deer Valley Medical Office Building II
LEED® Gold ENERGY STAR® certified
Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in
VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing
Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 62 Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 63
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency
BOARD OF DIRECTORS James D. Shelton CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BEST PRACTICES
Lead Independent Director, Ventas
Former Chairman, Omnicare, Inc.
Debra A. Cafaro
Former CEO and Chairman, Chairman and CEO, Ventas maintains best-in-class corporate governance practices and a commitment to high standards.
Triad Hospitals, Inc.
Ventas
Gender and
CC NC Melody C. Barnes
Ethnic Diversity Independence Executive Director, Karsh
Shareholder Accountability Alignment with Shareholder Interests
Institute of Democracy and
Maurice S. Smith
54% 91% various other leadership roles
President and CEO, • Annually elected directors • Annual director equity grants vest
at the University of Virginia
Health Care Service
• Majority voting for uncontested in one year
diverse independent Corporation NC
director elections • Robust minimum share ownership
Diverse AC CC
Women Independent • Shareholder right to act by written requirements
Ethnically diverse Non-Independent
consent • Board-level oversight of ESG, DE&I and
3
1 5 years 24 years • Proxy access human capital management
1 Sumit Roy
ears TENURE • Majority vote standard for by-laws
President 2 y 9 amendment Robust Shareholder Engagement
5 6 a Rn ed
a
lC tyE IO nc,
ome
KEY TO BOARD COMMITTEES y e ar
s • Bi-annual and ongoing Board-led
4 10 Corporation year AC Audit and Compliance Michael J. Board Independence shareholder engagement program,
IC < 1 CC C Coo mm pm ei ntt se ae tion Committee 1 E Fom rmbl ee rr Chief • All directors except CEO are including with top 50 shareholders
WDi ove mr ese n I Nn od ne -p Ine dnd epen ent dent NC Nominating, Governance ay e I On fv fe ics et rm , ent independent
Ethnically diverse 7 and Corporate r Franklin Mutual • Lead Independent Director Diversity, Refreshment & Tenure
y Responsibility Committee
e Advisors, LLC
T 8enure A 9tt 5en %dance W
R
Foaa rkl mt oe ewr
r
iC Cc.
h
E O,
a rs IC I Cn hv ae is rtment Committee
ars
AC IC
• 100% independent Board committees • F sii nve
c
en e 2w
01
B 9oard members appointed
e
years average tenure Director attendance
P ACro lo ICgis, Inc. 4
years
12 y D
•
ir Oe vc et ro br
o
C ao rdm inm
g
i ptm olie cn yt
: no more than two
• 5 p4 eo%
p
lo ef oB
f
o ca or ld
o
rmembers are women or
<1-5 years
2022 average
3 years 7
years
additional public company boards for • Two of the Board’s three NYSE-required
>5-15 years
>15 years directors who are executive officers of committees chaired by women
Matthew J. Lustig public companies and four additional • Mandatory retirement age (75)
2 Chairman of Investment public company boards for all other
Sean P. Nolan Banking, North America
5 CEO and Chair, and Head of Real Estate directors
Rigorous Self-Evaluation Process
Taysha Gene Therapies, Inc. and Lodging, Lazard • Audit Committee overboarding policy:
4 President, Nolan Capital, LLC Frères & Co. LLC • The Board and each of its committees
no more than two additional public
CC NC IC conduct annual self-evaluations
company Audit Committee roles
< >1 5- -5 1 5y e ya er as rs I Nn od ne -p Ine dnd epen ent dent Marguerite M. Nader Roxanne M. Martino related to their performance to provide
>15 years President and CEO, Managing Partner, OceanM19 LLC
feedback and assess Board, committee
Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc. Former CEO, Aurora Investment
Management LLC and director performance
AC NC
CC IC
Atria at the Arboretum
IREM® CSP
Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in
VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing
Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 64 Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 65
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency
ESG GOVERNANCE ESG Steering Committee
Environmental, social and governance policies and practices are integrated into all aspects of our business, with ultimate oversight responsibility provided by our Board The Ventas ESG Steering Committee
of Directors and Board Committees. oversees company-wide initiatives to improve Committee Members
our environmental footprint, in addition to corporate
• Chair: Ventas Chairman and CEO
social responsibility and governance efforts.
• EVP, General Counsel and Ethics &
Board of Directors
Under the leadership of the Ventas Chairman and Compliance Officer
Oversees the processes established by management to assess, monitor and mitigate the major risks facing the company, including ESG risks CEO, the ESG Steering Committee meets quarterly • EVP, Property Management and Leasing
to consolidate and improve Ventas’s awareness, (Lillibridge)
information collection and disclosure regarding • SVP & Chief Information Officer
Nominating, Governance and Corporate Compensation Committee Audit and Compliance Committee Investment Committee environmental matters. It then provides strategic • SVP, Chief Accounting Officer & Controller
Responsibility Committee • Oversees human capital • Oversees information security, • Oversees capital oversight and accountability for advancing ESG • SVP, Investor Relations
• Reviews and advises Board on corporate management programs cybersecurity and ethics and allocation and other priorities at Ventas. The ESG Steering Committee • VP, Corporate ESG & Sustainability
governance matters and practices and initiatives, including compliance risks investments oversees the Company’s multi-dimensional ESG • VP, Corporate Communications
• Oversees and advises Board on initiatives related to compensation • Oversees risk management framework, including the approval process of
changes to the framework and climate-related
ESG and DE&I strategy
targets, which are reviewed on an annual basis.
Ventas Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer
#1
Since GRESB introduced the Public Disclosure
Chairs the ESG Steering Committee and has ultimate responsibility for ESG at the Executive Leadership level
Assessment in 2017, Ventas has achieved the
highest grade of “A” each year and has increased
Listed Healthcare REIT in Global
its score year after year. In 2022, Ventas earned
Working under the supervision of our Chairman and CEO, our interdisciplinary internal management committees provide ESG direction for Ventas in their areas Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark
99 out of 100 points and ranked #1 out of 10
of expertise Assessment since 2017
respondents in the U.S. Healthcare group.
ESG Steering DE&I Committee Ventas Charitable HR Steering Enterprise Risk Management
Committee Foundation Committee Management Capital Committee
• Led by CEO, EVP,
Committee
• Led by CEO and VP, General Counsel • Led by SVP, Deputy • Led by CEO • Led by CEO
Corporate ESG & and Senior General Counsel and VP, Human • Led by EVP, • Assesses
Sustainability Investment Officer and VP, Corporate Resources General Counsel the impact of
• Provides oversight • Provides oversight Communications • Oversees human • Responsible for investments
and monitoring and accountability • Responsible for capital programs identifying and and divestitures,
of ESG strategy for advancing reviewing and and initiatives, managing the including on
and project diversity, equity and implementing including Company’s risk ESG matters
implementation inclusion Company’s charitable employee exposure, including
at Ventas giving program engagement ESG risks
South Tower 1
Ventas Healthcare Real Estate Fund
Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in
VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing
Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 66 Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 67
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency
RISK MANAGEMENT CYBERSECURITY & DATA PRIVACY
Ventas management has primary responsibility for identifying and managing our company’s exposure to risk, Enterprise Risk Ventas considers cybersecurity risk a serious threat to our assets and our people and has put practices
subject to active oversight by our Board of the processes we establish to assess, monitor and mitigate that Management and processes in place to mitigate the risk and impact of any disruption. Management briefs the Audit and
exposure. The Board, directly and through its committees, routinely discusses significant enterprise risks with Compliance Committee of our Board at least once a year on information security controls, protocols and risk 3+ years
management and reviews the guidelines, policies and procedures we have in place to manage those risks. Ventas has an integrated, multi-disciplinary assessment with mitigation measures. At the management level, we regularly identify and assess information
enterprise-wide risk management process, security risks using industry practices aligned to recommendations from the National Institute of Standards
At Board and committee meetings, directors discuss specific areas of risk, including those identified through
which is managed through our ERM Committee. and Technology and engage independent security firms to conduct periodic penetration tests with the aim without a material security breach
our enterprise risk management (ERM) process. These discussions enable our Board to focus on the
The ERM Committee is chaired by our General of identifying and remediating vulnerabilities. We also work with internal and external business partners to
strategic, financial, operational, legal, regulatory and other risks that we believe are most significant to our
Counsel and includes our CEO; CFO; SVP & Chief assess information security risks within their organizations that could impact Ventas.
company and our business.
Information Officer; SVP, Deputy General Counsel;
We provide employees with the training, tools and resources to protect themselves and the company from
and VP, Internal Audit. The ERM Committee
In addition to the overall risk oversight function administered directly by our Board, our Audit and Compliance,
information security breaches and to identify and report potential threats. We engage with a third-party
identifies, assesses and monitors enterprise-wide
Compensation, Investment and Nominating, Governance and Corporate Responsibility Committees exercise
Security Operations Center to monitor and respond to threats 24/7. 100%
risks to our company, which may include climate
their own oversight related to the risks associated with their specific responsibilities:
change risks.
The Ventas Employee Handbook includes policies on how employees are to manage and use company
electronic systems. Each employee regularly completes online information security training and acknowledges employees participate in annual
The ERM Committee is convened at least quarterly
Audit and Compliance Committee Compensation to review and update our top risks, including that they have read, understood and will abide by the company’s information security policy. cybersecurity training
Committee climate-related risks, which are monitored and
• Reviews financial, accounting, public reporting and internal
Cybersecurity Training
control risks, and the mechanisms through which we assess and assessed by our Corporate Risk and ESG &
• Evaluates whether our
manage risks compensation policies and Sustainability teams. Existing risks are evaluated Our employees receive training and testing on cybersecurity protocols throughout the year, including monthly
• Discusses with management the company’s major financial practices, as they relate to both for changes, and mitigation strategies are
anti-phishing campaigns; semi-annual cyber lunch-and-learn programs; and mandatory annual training and
risk exposures and steps taken to monitor and control such executive officers and employees discussed as needed. New risks are discussed
assessments with passing requirements. 2
exposures, including the company’s risk assessment and risk generally, encourage excessive
and evaluated for consideration as a top risk.
management processes risk-taking
Results are discussed with the Ventas Board of Ventas takes a cross functional approach to mitigating cybersecurity risk involving all departments within
• Reviews the company’s information security, cybersecurity and • Reviews risks and associated risk
Directors at quarterly board meetings as needed. the company in addition to third-party experts who validate our practices and share best practices from disaster recovery testing exercises
ethics and compliance risks management activities related to
other companies. completed each year
• Reviews conflict of interest, related party and other similar human capital management
matters, and oversees risks associated with such matters
Data Privacy
Ventas prioritizes safeguarding the data of its job candidates, employees, partners, clients, tenants and all
Investment Committee Nominating, Governance and Corporate other stakeholders. We minimize the amount of private information collected to support business needs and
• Oversees certain transaction- Responsibility Committee use secure storage and transfer protocols leveraging advanced encryption of critical information. Annual
related risks, including the review of
• Reviews risk related to corporate governance, Board
transactions in excess of
effectiveness and succession planning
certain thresholds tabletop cybersecurity exercise and external
• Evaluates risks associated with non-executive director
penetration test
independence, when applicable
Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in
VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing
Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 68 Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 69
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency
POLITICAL ETHICS & COMPLIANCE
CONTRIBUTIONS
Ethics and compliance are foundational to our company. At Ventas, we have an unwavering commitment to
Codes and Policies Define and
fair and ethical business conduct, and our programs and policies reflect the importance of ethics to us.
Underscore Our Expectations of
In accordance with our Political Contribution,
Expenditure and Activity Policy, we will not As an equal opportunity employer, we are committed to protecting the diversity and human rights of Ethical Behavior
use corporate funds or resources for direct individuals who support our business. This includes our directors, officers, employees, subcontractors and We embrace our commitment to integrity
contributions to federal political candidates, parties our partners, suppliers and vendors. We embed this responsibility in all business functions. through our Global Code of Ethics and
or campaigns. Occasionally, with prior approval of Business Conduct; Vendor Code of Conduct;
Audit and Compliance Committee Oversight
the Ethics & Compliance Officer, we may contribute Global Anti-Corruption Policy; Anti-Harassment
to a political action committee, advocate for a The Audit and Compliance Committee of our Board of Directors reviews matters of ethics and compliance Policy; Human Rights Policy; and Political
position, express a view or take other appropriate on a quarterly basis. The Committee reports these matters and any related actions to the full Board as and Contribution, Expenditure and Activity Policy, all
action with respect to legislative or political when appropriate. of which can be found on our website.
matters affecting our company or our interests in
compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Ethics & Compliance Training Programs
Political contributions, expenditures and activities Our comprehensive Ethics and Compliance Program ensures our employees are equipped with the
of certain officers and employees providing real knowledge, tools and resources to navigate all facets of our business while upholding our commitment
Global Vendor
estate investment advisory services for private to respectful, ethical and lawful business conduct. Our Human Resources and Legal teams identify and Code of Code of
capital sources through our Ventas Investment implement training and communication, providing employees with the tools and resources to keep ethics top Ethics and Conduct
Business
Management business are subject to additional of mind.
Conduct
restrictions, certifications and training requirements.
We supplement on-demand, virtual and instructor-led ethics and compliance training courses with select live,
We report our corporate political contributions in-person trainings and a variety of additional messaging mediums, such as email communication reminders
annually; records of these contributions over and short videos. Our internal Compliance team conducts periodic risk assessments that further inform our
the past years are posted to and available on training program, address current business needs and augment our Company’s risk mitigation efforts. Global Anti-
Anti- Harassment
our website.
All employees, including part-time workers and interns, are required to review annually and acknowledge Corruption Policy
Policy
their understanding of our key policies, including our Global Anti-Corruption Policy, Global Code of Ethics
and Business Conduct, Anti-Harassment and Securities Trading. We ensure 100% of these employees
acknowledge key policies every year and new employees acknowledge them shortly after joining us. We
periodically invite our partners and others in the Ventas ecosystem to attend training. We also host periodic,
targeted and mandatory employee training focused on risks that are specific to our business and industry.
Political Human
Contribution, Rights
Supplementary small group training is offered to select employees in high-risk areas. For instance, Ventas
Expenditure Policy
investment professionals also receive training on policies that are applicable to their field of work, and – in and Activity
Policy
particular — they must acknowledge their understanding of our political contributions policy. Other topics for
which we provide training include retaliation, conflicts of interest, information security, confidentiality, “pay to
Univ. of Miami Life Science and Technology Park
play” laws and our gifts and entertainment policies and procedures.
LEED® Platinum
Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in
VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing
Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 70 Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 71
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency
Reporting Illegal or Unethical Behavior
Ventas encourages employees and other stakeholders to bring any issues or concerns regarding perceived or potential misconduct to management’s attention.
Compliance Ventas Human Rights Policy We provide multiple channels for anyone (including employees, contractors, tenants, suppliers and vendors) to report business conduct concerns and complaints.
Risk 1 Risk • Compliance risks are assessed via The use of these channels is bolstered by our strict non-retaliation policy. We escalate significant incidents to our Compliance Investigator who records, reviews and
Respect for human rights is fundamental
Identification interviews with team members and legal appropriately processes these concerns and complaints to resolution. Significant concerns are reported to our Audit Committee on a quarterly basis.
Process at Ventas. We are committed to upholding
and compliance risk reviews
human dignity and equal opportunity under
the principles outlined in the United Nation’s Reporting Channels
Universal Declaration of Human Rights. In
addition, we embed our commitment to
human rights in our supply chain by requiring
Manager/Supervisor
2 Policy • Policies are implemented or revised to our vendors to comply with our Vendor Code
Implementation reflect the company’s current risk profile of Conduct. Ventas further promotes human HR
and business rights by encouraging social and environmental
For Employees
progress and better standards of life for our
Legal Department
employees, those of our suppliers and the
communities we serve. Fostering engagement
Ethics & Compliance Team
with each of these groups is critical to our
continued promotion of human rights. Ventas Incident Reporting Hotline
3 Training • Training is targeted and relates to (for reporting incidents at our
company compliance policies and risks Ventas and Lillibridge properties)
• Training format is customized to the
particular risk – from live with small groups,
to online or video all-employee training
For Shareholders
Compliance Investigator
Anonymous reporting via the
4 Controls, • Compliance is controlled, enforced
Company’s EthicsPoint reporting
Enforcement and monitored through a number
hotline (reports can be made
and Monitoring of mechanisms, including hard and
online or through a toll-free
soft controls, regular compliance
number available 24/7)
monitoring and responsive actions when
violations occur
Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in
VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing
Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 72 Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 73
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency
DEFINITIONS
SENIOR HOUSING PORTFOLIO OTHER
Operating (SHOP) Healthcare Facilities
Ventas invests in senior housing communities and engages independent Leading networks of care that include general acute hospitals and
third-party operators to manage the communities pursuant to cancer centers.
management agreements.
Post-Acute
Triple Net (NNN)
Includes Inpatient Rehabilitation Facilities (IRF), Long-Term Acute Care Facilities
Ventas-owned senior housing communities that are leased to high-quality (LTAC) and Skilled Nursing Facilities (SNF).
operators under “triple-net” or “absolute-net” leases that obligate the tenants to
SF: Square feet
pay all property-related expenses such as real estate taxes, building insurance
APPENDIX
and maintenance. NOI: Net Operating Income
OUTPATIENT MEDICAL AND RESEARCH PORTFOLIO TSR: Total Shareholder Return
Outpatient Medical Buildings DE&I: Diversity, equity and inclusion
Typically multi-tenant properties leased to health systems and their affiliated M/WBE: Minority and women-owned business enterprises
physicians that are strategically located on or near the campus of highly rated
75 Definitions ESG: Environmental, social and governance
hospitals and medical centers.
76 Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
GHG: Greenhouse gas
Research Centers
78 GRI Index
In-Boundary: Properties within our environmental control boundary, according
Life sciences, research and innovation real estate that is typically mixed use and
to the operational control method of the GHG Protocol. This primarily includes
incorporates laboratory research and academic space frequently affiliated with,
our outpatient medical and SHOP portfolios, representing ~60% of our total
or on the campus of, leading research institutions.
owned square feet.
Ventas Leadership: Ventas Vice President-level and above, including
executive officers
Lillibridge Healthcare Services (Lillibridge): Lillibridge is a premier outpatient
medical operating business that provides property management, marketing,
leasing and advisory services nationwide. Lillibridge is a wholly owned subsidiary
of Ventas, Inc.
DMC 1432
ENERGY STAR® certified
Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in
VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing
Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 74 Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 75
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency
CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS or financial deterioration of our tenants, managers, borrowers and other obligors us or our tenants, managers or borrowers; (q) increases in our borrowing
which may, among other things, have an adverse impact on the ability of costs as a result of becoming more leveraged, including in connection with
such parties to pay obligations due to us or our financial results and financial acquisitions or other investment activity and rising interest rates; (r) our reliance
This report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of other stimulus legislation and any future COVID-19 relief measures, including the
condition; (i) the risk that the borrowers under our loans or other investments on third parties to operate a majority of our assets and our limited control and
Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of risk that some or all of the CARES Act or other COVID-19 relief payments we or
default or that, to the extent we are able to foreclose or otherwise acquire the influence over such operations and results; (s) our dependency on a limited
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These forward-looking our tenants, managers or borrowers received may be subject to recoupment; (b)
collateral securing our loans or other investments, we will be required to incur number of tenants and managers for a significant portion of our revenues and
statements include, among others, statements of expectations, beliefs, future our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits and synergies from, and effectively
additional expense or indebtedness in connection therewith, that the assets will operating income; (t) the availability, adequacy and pricing of insurance coverage
plans and strategies, anticipated results from operations and developments and integrate, our completed or anticipated acquisitions and investments, including
underperform expectations or that we may not be able to subsequently dispose provided by our policies and policies maintained by our tenants, managers or
other matters that are not historical facts. Forward-looking statements include, our ownership of the properties that previously secured the Santerre Mezzanine
of all or part of such assets on favorable terms; (j) the recognition of reserves, other counterparties; (u) the occurrence of cyber incidents that could disrupt our
among other things, statements regarding our and our officers’ intent, belief or Loan; (c) our exposure and the exposure of our tenants, managers and
allowances, credit losses or impairment charges are inherently uncertain, may operations, result in the loss of confidential information or damage our business
expectation as identified by the use of words such as “assume,” “may,” “will,” borrowers to complex healthcare and other regulation and the challenges and
increase or decrease in the future and may not represent or reflect the ultimate relationships and reputation; (v) the impact of merger, acquisition and investment
“project,” “expect,” “believe,” “intend,” “anticipate,” “seek,” “target,” “forecast,” expense associated with complying with such regulation; (d) the potential for
value of, or loss that we ultimately realize with respect to, the relevant assets, activity in the healthcare industry or otherwise affecting our tenants, managers
“plan,” “potential,” “opportunity,” “estimate,” “could,” “would,” “should” and significant general and commercial claims, legal actions, regulatory proceedings
which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial or borrowers; (w) disruptions to the management and operations of our business
other comparable and derivative terms or the negatives thereof. or enforcement actions that could subject us or our tenants, managers or
condition; (k) the non-renewal of any leases or management agreement or and the uncertainties caused by activist investors; (x) the risk of catastrophic or
borrowers to increased operating costs, uninsured liabilities fines or significant
Forward-looking statements are based on management’s beliefs as well as on defaults by tenants or managers thereunder and the risk of our inability to extreme weather and other natural events and the physical effects of climate
operational limitations, including the loss or suspension of or moratoriums on
a number of assumptions concerning future events. You should not put undue replace those tenants or managers on favorable terms, if at all; (l) our ability to change; (y) the impact of purchase accounting adjustments, impairments, write
accreditations, licenses or certificates of need, suspension of new admissions,
reliance on these forward-looking statements, which are not a guarantee of identify and consummate future investments in or dispositions of healthcare downs and other non-cash charges related to our equitization of the Santerre
suspension, decertification or exclusion from federal, state or foreign healthcare
performance and are subject to a number of uncertainties and other factors that assets and effectively manage our portfolio opportunities and our investments in Mezzanine Loan; (z) the risk of potential dilution resulting from future sales or
programs or facility or community closure; (e) the impact of market and general
could cause actual events or results to differ materially from those expressed co-investment vehicles, joint ventures and minority interests, including our ability issuances of our equity securities; and (aa) the other factors set forth in our
economic conditions on us and our tenants, managers and borrowers, including
or implied by the forward-looking statements. We do not undertake a duty to to dispose of such assets on favorable terms as a result of rights of first offer periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
economic and financial market events, such as bank failures and other events
update these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on or rights of first refusal in favor of third parties; (m) risks related to development,
affecting financial institutions, market volatility, increases in inflation, changes in
which they are made. We urge you to carefully review the disclosures we make redevelopment and construction projects, including costs associated with
interest rates and exchange rates, tightening of lending standards and reduced
concerning risks and uncertainties that may affect our business and future inflation, rising interest rates, labor conditions and supply chain pressures;
availability of credit or capital, supply chain pressures, rising labor costs and
financial performance, including those made below and in our filings with the (n) our ability to attract and retain talented employees; (o) the limitations and
historically low unemployment, events that affect consumer confidence, our
Securities and Exchange Commission, such as in the sections titled “Cautionary significant requirements imposed upon our business as a result of our status as
occupancy rates and resident fee revenues, and the actual and perceived state
Statements — Summary Risk Factors,” “Risk Factors” and “Management’s a REIT and the adverse consequences (including the possible loss of our status
of the real estate markets, labor markets and public and private capital markets;
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in our as a REIT) that would result if we are not able to comply with such requirements;
(f) our reliance and the reliance of our tenants, managers and borrowers on
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022. (p) the risk of changes in healthcare law or regulation or in tax laws, guidance
the financial, credit and capital markets and the risk that those markets may
and interpretations, particularly as applied to REITs, that could adversely affect
Certain factors that could affect our future results and our ability to achieve be disrupted or become constrained, including as a result of bank failures or
our stated goals include, but are not limited to: (a) the impact of the ongoing concerns or rumors about such events, tightening of lending standards and
COVID-19 pandemic and other viruses and infections, such as flu and reduced availability of credit or capital; (g) our ability, and the ability of our
respiratory syncytial virus, and their extended consequences, including of any tenants, managers and borrowers, to navigate the trends impacting our or
variants, on our revenue, level of profitability, liquidity and overall risk exposure their businesses and the industries in which we or they operate; (h) the risk of
and the implementation and impact of regulations related to the CARES Act and bankruptcy, inability to obtain benefits from governmental programs, insolvency
Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in
VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing
Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 76 Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 77
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency
GRI INDEX
GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE LOCATION
The preparation of this report was guided by the latest Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Universal Standards 2021 and includes the material topics identified in our 2-7 Employees 2-7a-b:
At year-end 2022, Ventas had 451 employees
2019 ESG materiality assessment. We plan to refresh our GRI Index in 2024 to reflect the material topics identified in our 2023 ESG materiality assessment.
# of Employees by Employment Contract and Type as of 12/31/2022
Employee Contract Employee Type3
GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE LOCATION
Permanent Temporary1 Full-Time Part-Time
Gender Male 241 12 238 5
GRI 2: General 2-1 Organizational details 2.1a: Ventas, Inc.; 2022-2023 Corporate Sustainability Report, page 6
Disclosures 2021 2.1b: Corporation (NYSE: VTR), an S&P 500 Company; 2022-2023 Corporate Sustainability Report, page 6 Female 210 - 207 3
2.1c: Chicago, Illinois Region Chicago 133 4 131 2
2.1d: Ventas website: https://www.ventasreit.com/our-portfolio/properties-location
Louisville 71 2 71 2
New York 15 - 15 -
2-2 Entities included in the 2.2a-c: 2022 Form 10-K, pages 1, 3-7
organization’s sustainability reporting Property Locations4 204 2 200 4
Remote/Offsite 28 7 28 0
2-3 Reporting period, frequency and 2-3a: 2022-2023 Corporate Sustainability Report, page 2 Total 451 15 445 8
contact point 2-3b: Unless otherwise noted, quantitative data in this report is as of December 31, 2022; 2022-2023 Corporate
2-7c: Ventas used headcount as of the end of the period to complete the table above
Sustainability Report, page 2
2-7d: Footnotes for the table above:
2-3c: Publication Date: 10/25/2023
1. Temporary employees include interns and contractors
2-3d: Contact: Kelly Meissner VP, Corporate ESG & Sustainability esg@ventasreit.com
2. Ventas does not collect personal demographic information for contractors, therefore the Gender section for
Temporary employees only includes interns
2-4 Restatements of information None
3. Ventas does not track schedules for contractors in our HR system, so the Employment Type section includes only
Permanent Employees and Interns
4. Property Locations include buildings managed by Lillibridge Healthcare Services where employees are based
2-5 External assurance 2-5a: https://ventasreit.com/sites/default/files/pdf/Environmental_Social_Data_2022_Assurance.pdf
2-7e: No significant fluctuations
2-5b: 2022-2023 Corporate Sustainability Report, page 2
2-8 Workers who are not employees Not reported
2-6 Activities, value chain and other 2-6a: 2022 Form 10-K, pages 3-8
business relationships 2-6b: 2022-2023 Corporate Sustainability Report, page 64
2-9 Governance structure and 2-9a-b. 2022-2023 Corporate Sustainability Report, pages 62-73
2-6c: 2022 Form 10-K, pages 1, 59, 67
composition 2-9c. https://ir.ventasreit.com/governance/default.aspx
2-6d: For purposes of this section, there were no material changes from the prior reporting year
2-10 Nomination and selection of the 2-10a-b. 2023 Ventas Proxy Statement (pages 25-30; 23-28 of PDF)
highest governance body
2-11 Chair of the highest 2-11a-b. 2023 Ventas Proxy Statement (pages 25-30, 32; 23-28, 30 of PDF)
governance body
2-12 Role of the highest governance 2-12a-c. 2023 Ventas Proxy Statement (pages 34; 32 of PDF); 2022-2023 Corporate Sustainability Report,
body in overseeing the management pages 30-33, 66-67
of impacts
2-13 Delegation of responsibility for 2-13a-b. 2022-2023 Corporate Sustainability Report, pages 14-15, 30-33, 66-67
managing impacts
Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in
VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing
Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 78 Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 79
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency
GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE LOCATION GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE LOCATION
2-14 Role of the highest governance 2-14a. 2023 Ventas Proxy Statement (pages 29; 27 of PDF); 2022-2023 Corporate Sustainability Report, 2-25 Processes to remediate 2-25a-e:
body in sustainability reporting pages 30-33, 66-67 negative impacts • 2022-23 Corporate Sustainability Report pages 71-73
• https://ir.ventasreit.com/governance/Governance-Documents/
2-15 Conflicts of interest 2-15a. 2023 Ventas Proxy Statement (pages 29-31; 27-30 of PDF) o Global Code of Ethics and Business Conduct
2-15b. https://ir.ventasreit.com/governance/Governance-Documents/; refer to Global Code of Ethics and o Human Rights Policy
Business Conduct o Global Anti-Corruption Policy
o Vendor Code of Conduct
2-16 Communication of 2-16a. https://ir.ventasreit.com/governance/Governance-Documents/; refer to Global Code of Ethics and
critical concerns Business Conduct 2-26 Mechanisms for seeking advice 2-26a. 2022-23 Corporate Sustainability Report page 73
2-16b. In 2022 and 2023 year-to-date, we have not granted waivers of any provisions of our Global Code of Ethics and and raising concerns
Business Conduct and no material breaches of our Global Code of Ethics and Business Conduct have occurred that
would require public disclosure in any materials filed with the SEC. 2-27 Compliance with 2-27a-d: In 2022 and 2023 year-to-date, we have not had any material instances of non-compliance with laws that
laws and regulations would require public disclosure in any materials filed with the SEC.
2-17 Collective knowledge of the 2-17a. 2022-2023 Corporate Sustainability Report, pages 14-15, 30-33, 66-67
highest governance body 2-28 Membership associations 2-28a. https://www.ventasreit.com/corporate-responsibility: see 2022 CDP Report Section C123.b details of trade
associations; https://www.ventasreit.com/industry-association-engagement
2-18 Evaluation of the performance of 2-18a-c. 2022-2023 Corporate Sustainability Report, pages 14-15, 30-33, 66-67
the highest governance body 2-29 Approach to 2-29a. 2022-2023 Corporate Sustainability Report page 12
stakeholder engagement
2-19 Remuneration policies 2-19a-b. 2023 Ventas Proxy Statement (pages 47-89; 45-87 of PDF)
2-30 Collective bargaining agreements 2-30a. 2022 Form 10-K page 8: As of December 31, 2022, we had 451 employees, none of whom are subject to a
2-20 Process to determine 2-20a-b. 2023 Ventas Proxy Statement (pages 47-89; 45-87 of PDF) collective bargaining agreement. We believe that relations with our employees are positive.
remuneration 2-30b. N/A
2-21 Annual total compensation ratio 2-21a-c. 2023 Ventas Proxy Statement (pages 42-63; 40-61 of PDF) GRI 3: Material 3-1 Process to determine 3-1a-b. 2022-2023 Corporate Sustainability Report pages 14-15
Topics 2021 material topics
2-22 Statement on sustainable 2-22a. 2022-2023 Corporate Sustainability Report, pages 4-5, 8-15, 18-19
development strategy 3-2 List of material topics 3-2a-b. 2022-2023 Corporate Sustainability Report pages 14-15, 18-19
2-23 Policy commitments 2-23a – 2-23f.: 3-3 Management of material topics 3-3a – f: 2022-2023 Corporate Sustainability Report – refer to entire report and specifically pages 14-15, 18-19
• 2022-23 Corporate Sustainability Report pages 71-73
• https://ir.ventasreit.com/governance/Governance-Documents/ GRI 201: 201-1: Direct economic value 201-1a-b. 2022 Form 10-K: pages 75-80 (81-86 of PDF)
o Global Code of Ethics and Business Conduct Economic generated and distributed
o Human Rights Policy Performance
o Global Anti-Corruption Policy 2016
o Vendor Code of Conduct
2-24 Embedding policy commitments 2-24a. 2022-23 Corporate Sustainability Report pages 9-10, 18-19, 30-33, 71-73
Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in
VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing
Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 80 Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 81
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency
GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE LOCATION GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE LOCATION
202-2: Financial implications and 201-2a: 2022-2023 Corporate Sustainability Report pages 30-33 Tenant, Resident & Operator Satisfaction
other risks and opportunities due to
climate change 3-3 Management of material topics 2022-2023 Corporate Sustainability Report: pages 12, 14-16, 18-19, 21, 34-36, 39
201-3: Defined benefit plan obligations 201-3a-e: 2022-2023 Corporate Sustainability Report pages 52-55 Responsible Investment
and other retirement plans
3-3 Management of material topics 2022-2023 Corporate Sustainability Report: pages 14-15, 18-19, 39, 41
201-4: Financial assistance received 201-4a-c: 2022 Form 10-K: Government Regulation, page 10 (16 of PDF); Note 2, page 92 (98 of PDF)
from government Climate Change
3-3 Management of material topics 2022-2023 Corporate Sustainability Report: pages 13, 14-15, 18-19, 30-33, 38-41, 67-68
Talent Attraction & Retention
Health, Well-Being & Safety
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of material topics 2022-2023 Corporate Sustainability Report: pages 18, 50-61
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of material topics 2022-2023 Corporate Sustainability Report: pages 14-15, 18-19, 37-39, 50-53
GRI 404: Training 404-1 Average hours of training per 2022-2023 Corporate Sustainability Report: page 56
and Education year per employee GRI 416 416-1 Assessment of the health 2022-2023 Corporate Sustainability Report: pages 14-15, 18-19, 37-39, 50-53
Customer Health and safety impacts of products and
404-2 Programs for upgrading 404-2a. 2022-2023 Corporate Sustainability Report: pages 54-57 and Safety 2016 services categories
employee skills and training assistance 404-2b. Not provided
programs 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance 2022-2023 Corporate Sustainability Report: pages 14-15, 18-19, 52
concerning the health and safety
404-3 Percentage of employees 100% of employees receive regular performance reviews and feedback through our performance management program. impacts of products and services
receiving regular performance and
career development reviews Environment - Emissions
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion GRI 305 3-3 Management of material topics 2022-2023 Corporate Sustainability Report: pages 15-16, 18-19, 21-27, 30-33, 39; 2022-2023 Detailed
Emissions 2016 Environmental Data
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of material topics 2022-2023 Corporate Sustainability Report: pages 10-11, 16-18, 42, 45-47, 51, 54, 58-61, 65-66
Topics 2021 305-1 GHG emissions 2022-2023 Detailed Environmental Data pages 2-7
GRI 405: 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies 405-1a-b. 2022-2023 Corporate Sustainability Report: pages 18-19, 64
305-2 Energy indirect (scope 2) 2022-2023 Detailed Environmental Data pages 2-10;
Diversity and employees
GHG emissions https://www.ventasreit.com/corporate-responsibility: see 2022 CDP Report Section 6-8
and Equal
Opportunity
305-3 Other indirect (scope 3) 2022-2023 Detailed Environmental Data pages 2-10;
2016
GHG emissions https://www.ventasreit.com/corporate-responsibility: see 2022 CDP Report Section 6-8
405-2 Ratio of basic salary and 405-2a-b: Not disclosed
remuneration of women to men 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 2022-2023 Detailed Environmental Data pages 2-10;
https://www.ventasreit.com/corporate-responsibility: see 2022 CDP Report Section 6-8
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 2022-2023 Detailed Environmental Data pages 2-10;
https://www.ventasreit.com/corporate-responsibility: see 2022 CDP Report Section 6-8
Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in
VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing
Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 82 Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 83
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency
GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE LOCATION GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE LOCATION
Environment - Energy Environment - Waste
GRI 302 Energy 3-3 Management of material topics 2022-2023 Corporate Sustainability Report: pages 15-16, 18-19, 21-27, 30-33, 39 GRI 306: Waste 3-3 Management of material topics 2022-2023 Corporate Sustainability Report: pages 14-15, 18-19, 29-33, 39
2016 2020
302-1 Energy consumption within 2022-2023 Detailed Environmental Data pages 8-10; 306-1 Waste generation and 2022-2023 Corporate Sustainability Report: pages 14-15, 18-19, 29-33, 39; 2022-2023 Detailed Environmental Data
organization https://www.ventasreit.com/corporate-responsibility: see 2022 CDP Report Section 6-8 significant waste-related impacts pages 12-13
302-2 Energy consumption outside of 2022-2023 Detailed Environmental Data pages 5-7; 306-2 Management of significant 2022-2023 Detailed Environmental Data pages 12-13
the organization https://www.ventasreit.com/corporate-responsibility: see 2022 CDP Report Section 6-8 waste-related impacts
302-3 Energy intensity 2022-2023 Detailed Environmental Data pages 8-10; 306-3 Waste generated 2022-2023 Detailed Environmental Data pages 12-13
https://www.ventasreit.com/corporate-responsibility: see 2022 CDP Report Section 6-8
306-4 Waste diverted from disposal Not material
302-4 Reduction of energy 2022-2023 Detailed Environmental Data pages 8-10;
consumption https://www.ventasreit.com/corporate-responsibility: see 2022 CDP Report Section 6-8
306-5 Waste directed to disposal Not material
302-5 Reductions in energy 2022-2023 Detailed Environmental Data pages 8-10;
requirements of products and services https://www.ventasreit.com/corporate-responsibility: see 2022 CDP Report Section 6-8
Environment - Water
GRI 303: Water 3-3 Management of material topics 2022-2023 Corporate Sustainability Report: pages 14-15, 18-19, 28, 29-33, 39
and Effluents
2018
303-1 Interactions with water as a 2022-2023 Corporate Sustainability Report: pages 14-15, 18-19, 28, 29-33, 39; 2022-2023 Detailed Environmental
shared resource Data pages 10-11
303-2 Management of water Not material
discharge related impacts
303-3 Water withdrawal Not material
303-4 Water discharge Not material
303-5 Water consumption 2022-2023 Corporate Sustainability Report: pages 14-15, 18-19, 28, 29-33, 39; 2022-2023 Detailed Environmental
Data pages 10-11
Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in Enabling Sustainable Empowering Leading in
VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing VENTAS 2023 CORPORATE A Message from About Prioritizing
Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 84 Environments and Exceptional Governance and Appendix 85
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our CEO Ventas Sustainability Strong Communities People Transparency
