CORPORATE
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
PUBLISHED: SEPTEMBER 2022
TABLE OF CONTENTS
04 A Message From Our CEO
Leading owner of ENERGY Achieved CDP’s “A List” Selected to the DJSI World Named to the Bloomberg
06 Ventas At-A-Glance
STAR® certified senior housing for tackling climate change Index for the third year Gender Equality Index (GEI)
communities and medical (recognizing top 2% of global (recognizing top 10% for the third consecutive year
office buildings companies scored) of global companies)
08 ESG Highlights
10 Prioritizing ESG
16 People
Empowering Perspectives
& Building Community
Earned Sustainalytics Low ESG Awarded Silver in Nareit’s Named a 2022 Top Corporate Awarded Nareit’s Healthcare
Risk Rating (12.8 out of 100) 2021 Diversity, Equity & Citizen by 3BL Media for the Leader in the Light for the
Inclusion Recognition Awards third consecutive year fifth consecutive year and 38 Performance
sixth time overall
Responsible Growth
& Operational Excellence
48 Planet
Reducing Our Footprint
& Protecting The Environment
Achieved ISS ESG Prime Status #1 Listed Healthcare REIT in Named one of Newsweek’s 2022 MSCI ESG Rating
60 Governance
for Corporate ESG performance Global Real Estate Sustainability America’s Most Responsible upgraded to “AA”
Benchmark Assessment Companies for the second
since 2017 consecutive year
70 Appendix
Sutter Van Ness
LEED® Gold
2 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021-2022 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021-2022 3
STNETNOC
FO
ELBAT
A MESSAGE With strong momentum from our environmental achievements to date, we have
meaningfully elevated our sustainability efforts by pledging to achieve net-zero
operational greenhouse gas emissions by 2040. This commitment, embraced by
FROM OUR CEO
our Board of Directors, exemplifies our intention to take ambitious actions that go
well beyond our prior aspirations, and to stay at the leading edge of business efforts
GRI: 102-14 to address climate change. Ventas is the first healthcare REIT, and one of only
a handful of REITs, to have established a “net-zero” emissions goal. Building upon
We are delighted to share our fifth Corporate Sustainability Report with you. Building
previously adopted science-based targets, our net-zero pledge will require us to
on our long history of industry-leading environmental, social and governance (ESG)
take measurable, compounding actions to achieve our goal. At the same time,
achievements, we continue to accelerate our activities and commitments and to set
we are advancing our industry-leading efforts on energy efficiency, water
ambitious goals to drive meaningful change.
conservation and responsible waste management. We are supporting others in
To stay at the forefront of ESG leadership, we take a targeted, customized approach
our industry, our operating partners and our development partners who also want
to each ESG component. We have always realized the benefits of strong governance
to minimize their environmental impact.
to performance, risk management and excellence and have an outstanding
At Ventas, we are redefining what sustainable leadership looks like and what
independent Board of Directors with fit-for-purpose skills and experiences. Our
we can aspire to achieve. We have an outstanding, collaborative team that
Board of Directors continues to refine our foundational principles and practices,
drives our business performance, which is closely aligned with our ESG activities.
and bring them to life with their actions and commitment to our stakeholders.
Our team is committed to further elevating, innovating and intensifying ESG at
We continue to drive our social priorities. We support our employees through
Ventas, earning our reputation as a standard setter for excellence and, above all,
focused development and training, superior health and wellness benefits, flexible
creating a better future for all our stakeholders, our industry, our communities,
work arrangements and a culture of inclusivity and belonging. We have supercharged
our society and our planet.
our diversity, equity and inclusion (DE&I) efforts by adopting a customized strategic
framework and directly engaging our employees in our efforts. With targeted and
effective initiatives, we are driving lasting and sustainable change for our company,
our industry and our communities. To reinforce our seriousness of purpose,
Debra A. Cafaro
executive compensation is linked to our success in meeting our DE&I goals. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer East Jefferson Medical Plaza
ENERGY STAR® Certified
4 5
OEC
RUO
MORF
EGASSEM
A
VENTAS AT-A-GLANCE
GRI: 102-2, 102-6
20+
Ventas is an S&P 500 company and one of the world’s foremost REITs. We operate at the intersection of two powerful and dynamic
years of operation
industries—healthcare and real estate. Our team has a 20+ year track record of performance and today owns a diversified, high-quality
portfolio of over 1,200 properties catering to the needs of a large and growing aging population.
Ventas has followed a successful, enduring strategy throughout our more than two decades of history. Working with industry-leading
care providers, developers and research institutions, and supported by a collaborative, experienced team, we are delivering on our record
19 annualized TSR since
of disciplined, forward-thinking capital allocation decisions, shaping and elevating our portfolio to capitalize on the most attractive areas %
December 31, 1999
of healthcare real estate.
SENIOR HOUSING COMMUNITIES MEDICAL OFFICE BUILDINGS (MOB)
48% ~75,000 >50,000 22% ~14,000 >30M
~450
of portfolio1 seniors front-line of portfolio1 providers patient visits
employees
workers annually
Providing quality lifestyles and care for seniors in independent living, Supporting leading not-for-profit and for-profit healthcare systems,
assisted living and memory care facilities physicians and patients
>1,200
LIFE SCIENCE, RESEARCH
properties
HOSPITALS AND OTHER HEALTHCARE FACILITIES
AND INNOVATION (R&I) CENTERS
10% >17 6 of top 7 18% >6,500 >1.5M
of portfolio1 top-tier research life science of portfolio1 beds patient days
universities clusters2 annually
$33B
Enabling cutting-edge research facilities advancing treatments and Serving critical healthcare needs, South San Francisco Life Science Campus enterprise value
Ventas Healthcare Real Estate Fund
cures for clinical conditions including COVID care
1. Reflects portfolio concentration based on Annualized Adjusted NOI as of 6/30/2022.
2. Includes University of Washington project announced in August 2022. The ranking of top life science cluster markets is based on Newmark’s 2021 Year-End Life Science Overview.
6 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021-2022 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021-2022 7
ECNALG-A-TA-SATNEV
years of voluntary
10+
ESG framework
ESG reporting BOARD DIVERSITY CORPORATE DIVERSITY, EQUITY &
The individuals who serve on the PHILANTHROPY INCLUSION
Ventas Board represent a broad Through our Ventas Charitable Our DE&I Committee brings our
range of experience, expertise and Fund, we donated to 60 non-profit diversity ambitions to life, developing
perspectives. Our Board is 45% organizations, of which nearly 40% and advancing measurable goals where
HIGHLIGHTS
diverse by gender or ethnicity. were charities nominated directly Ventas can have the most impact. To
36 female board
% by our employees. further drive progress, our executive
members compensation program includes
incentives tied to these efforts.
Guided by our foundational principles, we are
independent
raising the bar on what can be achieved for
100
board
%
our stakeholders and the planet. This year, we
committees
challenged ourselves to innovate and accelerate
our ESG initiatives, validating our place at the
NET-ZERO OPERATIONAL ENERGY MANAGEMENT EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT
forefront of ESG leadership.
CARBON EMISSIONS BY 2040 Ventas earned its second consecutive We increased feedback touch points
229 certified Ventas joined the ranks of global ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year with our employees through newly
green buildings companies on the forefront of mitigating Award for Energy Management in launched single-topic pulse surveys
climate change with our commitment 2022. We are also the top owner of in addition to our annual employee
to achieve net-zero operational ENERGY STAR certified senior housing engagement survey, with our annual
carbon emissions by 2040 and 100% communities and top owner/operator of overall employee engagement
renewable electricity by 2035. medical office buildings. exceeding our peer benchmark.
8 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021-2022 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021-2022 9
STHGILHGIH
GSE
Atria Marland Place
LEED® Gold
OUR ESG FRAMEWORK
To identify the ESG topics most important to our internal and external stakeholders, in 2019 Ventas conducted an in-depth materiality
assessment in accordance with the Global Reporting Index (GRI) guidelines3. This evidence-based, objective process forms the basis
of our ESG strategy—organized around People, Performance and Planet—and, combined with our foundational values of health
and safety and strong corporate governance, guides our sustainability efforts.
PERFORMANCE
E A LTH & SAFE Responsible Growth & Operational Excellence: Smart
H T
Y business growth is synonymous with our Company’s long history
PEOPLE of outperformance. Our strategic investments and partnerships
Empowering Perspectives are structured to create a positive impact for our shareholders
& Building Community: Our and communities and to strengthen our portfolio.
team drives our success and
PERFORMANCE Priority topics include:
creates unmatched value.
• T enant, Resident & Operator Satisfaction
Ensuring our employees’ overall
• Responsible Investment
well-being and embracing their
PEOPLE
diverse perspectives is critical to PLANET
delivering sustainable results.
Reducing Our Footprint & Protecting the Environment:
Priority topics include: Protecting the planet and minimizing our impact is a business
PRIORITIZING ESG PLANET
• T alent Attraction & Retention and moral imperative. Our ambitious environmental goals provide
• D iversity, Equity & Inclusion a clear roadmap toward advancing our sustainability objectives.
E Priority topics include:
Leading with Purpose G OVERNA N C • Climate Change • Water
• Energy & Emissions • Waste
GRI: 103-1, 103-2, 103-3
We believe smart environmental, social and governance practices are
HEALTH & SAFETY GOVERNANCE
essential to delivering sustainable results. Our industry-leading
Prioritizing Healthy Communities: We are committed to ensuring A Company Built on Ethics & Integrity: We adhere to best-in-class governance practices.
ESG program is designed to drive tangible change through intentional the safety and well-being of our employees and the residents, tenants, Integrity, transparency and accountability are embedded in our culture, embraced by our
caregivers and patients who live in and frequent our buildings. Board of Directors, our leaders and our employees and reflected in our business conduct.
actions and collective effort.
3. Additional information on our materiality assessment is available on our website.
10 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021-2022 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021-2022 11
GSE
GNIZITIROIRP
ONGOING STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
GRI: 102-12, 102-21, 102-40. 102-42, 102-43, 102-44
We actively collaborate with other industry leaders through involvement in industry associations. Through these efforts, we share best
We engage regularly with our stakeholders to determine whether our ESG strategy and efforts continue to reflect the top concerns
practices, reinforce our ESG priorities and amplify our industry’s impact. Additional information regarding our participation in other industry
and priorities of our employees, partners, tenants, investors and community members.
associations is available on our website.
Employees Investors
• Quarterly Town Halls with employee Q&A led by Executive Team • Best-in-class, Board-led engagement program
• Annual employee engagement and quarterly pulse surveys (pg. 30) • Participation in key industry conferences and events
• Everyday Outperformance program (pg. 31) to discuss ESG priorities and actions
• Ventas Connect intranet (pgs. 21, 30) • Public disclosures via industry-leading Corporate
• Recurring company newsletter (pg. 21) Responsibility Report
• CEO update emails • Investor and Analyst meetings to discuss progress
• Ventas Speaker Series (pg. 35) against ESG goals and answer questions about the
Corporate Responsibility Report NAREIT LEADERSHIP COUNCILS REAL ESTATE ROUNDTABLE (RER)
• Employee Resource Groups (pgs. 34-35, 37)
Ventas employees are active participants and leaders in Serving as the immediate past chair and current board member
numerous Nareit thought leadership councils, sharing best of the RER, Ventas Chairman and CEO Debra A. Cafaro comes
STAKEHOLDERS
practices for sustainability and ESG implementation for the together with other leaders of the nation’s top publicly held and
Partners & Tenants Communities
REIT and publicly traded real estate industry. privately owned real estate firms and the leaders of major
• Collaborative energy and water pilots (pgs. 44, 55-57) • Ventas Charitable Foundation (pg. 36) national real estate trade associations.
• Ventas Operational Insights (pg. 47) • Employee volunteerism (pgs. 22, 35, 37) Notably, our Chairman and CEO Debra A. Cafaro co-chairs
• Annual tenant satisfaction survey (pg. 46) • Marquee partnerships (pg. 36) the Dividends Through Diversity, Equity & Inclusion (DDEI) RER addresses key national policy issues relating to real estate
• Website and social media updates • Project development community events and meetings CEO Council, a group of more than 30 REIT CEOs leading the and the overall economy, ensuring that policymakers hear a
• Dedicated online tenant portal (pgs. 22-23, 41, 43) REIT industry’s efforts to support the recruitment, inclusion, cohesive industry voice. The RER has most recently prioritized
• Ongoing meetings with operators on ESG initiatives (pg. 44) • Website and social media updates development and advancement of under-represented groups advancing sustainable national public policies that will ensure
• Joint effort toward operator and tenant green building certifications (pg. 45) in the industry. long-term growth for the economy and the real estate industry.
• Annual utility benchmarking assessments with largest operators (pg. 44)
• Tenant appreciation and property-level events (pgs. 37, 46-47, 55) Kelly Meissner, our Vice President, Corporate ESG & In her role as RER Chair, Cafaro established the Equity,
Sustainability, chairs the Real Estate Sustainability Council Diversity and Inclusion Committee, of which Ventas is an active
(RESC), comprised of approximately 90 sustainability thought participant. Kelly Meissner serves on the RER’s Sustainability
“We believe frequent, year-round engagement with our stakeholders is essential to our business leaders from more than 60 REITs—representing all REIT Policy Advisory Committee, focusing on a variety of
sectors—with a mission to help shape and lead the industry environmentally and economically sustainable building
success. It promotes visibility and transparency while allowing our team to better understand
on ESG and climate issues. development policies.
emerging issues and priorities that inform our decision-making.”
BILL (BJ) GRANT, SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT, INVESTOR RELATIONS
12 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021-2022 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021-2022 13
GSE
GNIZITIROIRP
OUR GOALS
PERFORMANCE GOAL 2021 STATUS PERFORMANCE
GRI: 102-12, 102-31, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 201-2, CRE8, 405-1, 416-1, 416-2 TENANT, RESIDENT Derive at least 80% of Senior Housing NOI from As of 6/30/2022, 94% of our Senior Housing NOI6 was derived
AND OPERATOR tenants/operators that conduct resident satisfaction from tenants/operators that conduct resident satisfaction
Leveraging the priority topics identified in our GRI materiality assessment, Ventas has set measurable goals to make surveys surveys
meaningful progress in each of our ESG strategy pillars: People, Performance and Planet. The goals are aligned with
100% of NNN segment NOI from agreements
nine of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs) where we believe we can make the most impact. requiring compliance with applicable health and As of 6/30/2022, 100% of our NNN NOI6 was from agreements
requiring compliance with health and safety laws
safety laws
STATUS KEY: ACHEIVED ON TRACK / PARTIALLY ACHEIVED BELOW TARGET
RESPONSIBLE
Achieve LEED Silver or better on 100% of new As of 6/30/2022, 100% of our R&I developments are on track
INVESTMENT
R&I developments to achieve LEED Silver or better
PEOPLE GOAL 2021 STATUS PERFORMANCE
TALENT ATTRACTION Overall employee engagement in top half of peer Employee Engagement in 59th percentile of peer benchmark Evaluate the cost and feasibility of LEED As of 6/30/2022, 100% of our new developments have been
AND RETENTION benchmark in 20214 ; 91% participation in 2021 or equivalent for all new developments evaluated for LEED cost and feasibility
PLANET GOAL 2021 STATUS PERFORMANCE
Provide an employee medical health benefits package Our medical health benefits package exceeded the peer
that exceeds a national cross-industry benchmark benchmark by 48% in 2020 and 36% in 2021
CLIMATE Less than 10% of annual NOI from properties As of 6/30/2022, 4% of our NOI6,7 was from properties in high
Minimum wage of $17/hour for full-time employees As of 12/31/2021, 99.1% of employees earned at least CHANGE in high flood risk areas (FEMA Zone A) flood risk zones
by 2024 $17/hour
100% of non-NNN leased assets have emergency As of 6/30/2022, 100% of our non-NNN assets have emergency
Two lost time incidents in 2021; one to-date in 2022 plans in place plans in place
Annual goal of 0 lost time incidents for employees
(as of 8/1/2022)
In March 2022, Ventas announced a goal to achieve net-zero
DIVERSITY, Our 2021 employee gender ratio was 47% female: 53% male; Develop a net-zero carbon emissions goal operational carbon (scopes 1 and 2) by 2040, including a
EQUITY Employee gender balance (50% female: 50% male) as of 6/30/2022 our employee gender ratio is 46% female: and implementation strategy by 2022 three-pronged strategy to achieve
across organization (+/- 5%)
& INCLUSION 54% male
ENVIRONMENT
GHG Emissions: Reduce Scopes 1, 2 and 3
Maintain or exceed 30% women on our Board As of 12/31/2021, our board was 36% female; as of 6/30/2022 Since 2018, we have reduced our total Scope 1 and Scope 2
emissions on an absolute basis by 30% by 2030
of Directors our board remains 36% female emissions by 16.3% and Scope 3 emissions by 3.2% (flat and
(2.5% annually); Scope 1 and 2 goal is validated by
a 1.5% reduction from 2020, respectively)8, 9
the Science Based Targets initiative
Achieve 25% female representation among Ventas As of 12/31/2021, our leadership was 32% female;
Leadership by 20235 as of 6/30/2022 our leadership is 31% female
Energy: Reduce intensity (MWh/1,000 SF) for Since 2018, we have reduced the energy intensity of properties
PERFORMANCE GOAL 2021 STATUS PERFORMANCE properties in our environmental control boundary by within our environmental boundary by 21.5%, achieving our
20% over 10 years (2% annually) 10-year goal 6 years early8
TENANT, RESIDENT
Achieve MOB overall tenant satisfaction above
AND OPERATOR Our MOB tenant satisfaction survey results exceeded the
peer benchmark (Kingsley Index) and at least 1% Water: Reduce intensity (cubic meters/1,000 SF) for
Kingsley benchmark and increased by 1% in 2021 Since 2018, we have reduced the water intensity of properties
annual increase properties in our environmental control boundary by
within our environmental boundary by 3.0%8
20% over 10 years (2% annually)
Achieve Life Science, R&I overall tenant satisfaction Our Life Science, R&I tenant satisfaction survey results
above peer benchmark (Kingsley Index) and at least exceeded the Kingsley benchmark, but decreased by 2% Waste: Recycling programs at 100% of assets within At the end of 2021, we had recycling services available at 49%
1% annual increase in 2021 our environmental control boundary by 2028 of properties within our environmental boundary
4. In 2021 we transitioned administration of our employee engagement survey from Gartner to Gallup, resulting in a different methodology for measuring employee engagement 6. Trailing Twelve Months of NOI through 6/30/2022.
and a different benchmark. 7. Denominator excludes 2.8% of NOI where flood zone is unmapped or unavailable.
5. Leadership defined at Ventas as VP-level and above, including Executive Officers. 8. Emissions, energy, and water data are time-weighted by property for the period of ownership.
9. 2020 scope 3 emissions have been adjusted due to changes in our estimation methodologies.
14 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021-2022 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021-2022 15
GSE
GNIZITIROIRP
90+
internal transfers and
promotions in 2021
51
% manager and above
female employees
60
nonprofits received Ventas
PEOPLE
Charitable Fund donations in 2021
Empowering Perspectives & Building Community
GRI: 405-1
employee training
At Ventas, our collaborative and dedicated team drives our success. We support their well-being
5,000+
hours completed
through our industry-leading compensation and benefits program and invest in their futures by
in 2021
providing career advancement and professional development opportunities. Harnessing the power
of the diverse experiences and perspectives of our team members, we foster an inclusive, engaging
and sustainably focused environment within our workplace and our broader communities.
16 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021-2022 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021-2022 17
ELPOEP
LEADING WITH PURPOSE
DIVERSITY, EQUITY & INCLUSION
MOBILIZING OUR FRAMEWORK: THE VENTAS DE&I COMMITTEE
GRI: 103-1, 103-2, 103-3
In 2021, we put our framework into action through the creation of a formal DE&I Committee.
We have a long history of actively promoting diversity, equity & inclusion (DE&I), and we are accelerating our programs
Spearheaded by EVP and Chief Investment Officer, John Cobb, Senior Investment Officer, Tim
and initiatives to drive lasting change in our company, our industry and our communities.
Sanders, and sponsored by our CEO, the committee unites a diverse, multi-disciplinary group
of over 30 employees from across our company. Organized into subcommittees by each pillar
of the framework, the teams set out to catalogue our programs and initiatives and research best
practices. This resulted in identification of a clear set of goals and objectives with a formalized
CHANGE STARTS HERE: THE VENTAS DE&I FRAMEWORK
process for tracking and benchmarking to ensure we are making significant progress against our
Our comprehensive DE&I Framework, developed under the leadership of Ventas Chairman and CEO Debra A. Cafaro, provides
commitments in ways consistent with the Ventas culture.
a strategic foundation that enables us to make meaningful progress toward a more diverse, equitable and inclusive world.
To further drive accountability, key DE&I metrics have been identified and aligned to
The Ventas DE&I Framework is organized around four key pillars—People, Culture, Beyond Ventas and Investment & Financial.
executive compensation.
PEOPLE
Embedding diversity, equity and inclusion throughout Quantify DE&I Advance progress
Identify performance
the employee life cycle, including in our approach activities and initiatives against DE&I
Determine near- measures to
already underway initiatives, measuring
to hiring, professional development, career and long-term evaluate effectiveness
CULTURE outcomes to ensure
progression and compensation. action items of programs and
Research DE&I best accountability and
Supporting and advancing a culture of diversity, equity initiatives
practices effectiveness
and inclusion, embracing our employees’ unique
perspectives and backgrounds and sharing our
commitment to DE&I internally and externally.
INVESTMENT & FINANCIAL
Expanding our relationships with minority-
and women-owned businesses (M/WBE)
“Our DE&I goals represent specific areas where we believe Ventas
and promoting and supporting the DE&I efforts
of our partners, vendors and suppliers. can use its current strengths and business activities to make
BEYOND VENTAS tangible and meaningful impact within Ventas, our communities,
Positively affecting society and strengthening
the commercial real estate industry and the broader environment.”
our communities through DE&I-focused philanthropic
and community investment efforts.
TIM SANDERS, SENIOR INVESTMENT OFFICER AND CO-CHAIR DE&I COMMITTEE
18 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021-2022 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021-2022 19
ELPOEP
DE&I OBJECTIVES AND PROGRESS HIGHLIGHTS
Culture
People
• Establish baseline assessment of • Substantially expand innovative • Share our DE&I commitment
DE&I employee sentiment to inform and targeted DE&I employee internally and externally
• Increase the diversity of our candidate pool • Implement programs to support diverse future initiatives that advance and training, education and events
employee base strengthen a culture of DE&I
• Expand diversity metrics and tracking capabilities
within our human capital software and processes • Increase the representation of women
in senior leadership BLACK HISTORY MONTH
DRIVING A CULTURE OF INCLUSION
“The emphasis and value placed on diversity at Ventas,
Our Culture subcommittee is supporting our DE&I especially from our leadership, has been both energizing
commitment and communicating it within Ventas and and empowering. I come to work every day feeling
beyond. Through direct spotlights and conversations supported and proud knowing that my accomplishments
shared on our intranet and weekly employee newsletter, have a positive generational effect on Black youth,
DIVERSIFYING OUR TALENT PIPELINE
our employees learn more about the rich diversity of including my sons, as these achievements broaden the
Our People subcommittee is working to identify and implement
their colleagues. These continually prove to be our faces they see representing the real estate industry. ”
actions to enhance diversity and inclusion in our recruiting and
Company’s most popular and engaging features. This
hiring processes. Looking inward, we launched an engaging, – Carey Edmund, Manager,
diverse employee perspective is amplified to the broader Senior Living Capex
live, instructor-led Unconscious Bias diversity training for our
community via our intentional social media strategy
interviewers, with a goal to train 80% of interviewers by December
highlighting our people.
31, 2022 (74% trained as of August 15, 2022). To ensure we are
WOMEN’S HISTORY MONTH
engaging with a diverse slate of candidates, we enhanced our We are gratified to celebrate our diverse colleagues who
Applicant Tracking System to provide candidate diversity have earned recognition for their community leadership. “When I began my career, there were few women in the
metrics for each open position. Ventas Board Member Maurice S. Smith was named room and the numbers only got smaller as I advanced;
one of Modern Healthcare’s 100 Most Influential People in the experience can leave you questioning whether you
Our efforts expanded outside our walls too, progressing our
Healthcare and ranked #10 on Crain’s Chicago Business really belong there. Coming to Ventas and seeing
relationships with Historically Black Colleges and Universities
women at the most senior level normalizes the idea
“Power 25” List. Ankit Patel, Senior Vice President,
(HBCUs) and introducing a wider audience to potential careers
of females in any position, and lets us focus on
Corporate Finance and Sophia Ladouceur, Vice
in real estate. For example, we partnered with Howard University’s
President, Corporate Finance were both named to
bringing forth everyone’s best talents.”
summer externship program and continued our participation in The
Crain’s Chicago Business 2022 Notable Executives
– Bhavana Devulapally,
National Black MBA Association’s well-attended career fair for the
of Color lists. SVP and Chief Information Officer
sixth consecutive year, successfully sourcing a 2022 summer intern
from the event.
20 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021-2022 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021-2022 21
ELPOEP
Beyond Ventas Investment & Financial
• Expand and deepen relationships with organizations • Identify opportunities to broaden our impact • Increase directable/addressable M/WBE spend for • Improve diversity of and within Ventas professional
driving DE&I in our communities and industry within communities where we do business all U.S. ground-up construction and development services firms, preferred vendors and suppliers
projects
• Partner with the Ventas Charitable Fund to formally • Within fiduciary bounds, formally incorporate DE&I
embed DE&I into our giving framework • Increase directable/addressable M/WBE operating considerations into 401(k) fund selection
expense spend at all our Ventas properties
PROMOTING DIVERSITY THROUGH COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT
We have purposefully increased our community engagement to promote diversity. In 2021, Ventas announced a 4-year, $100,000 commitment SUPPORTING DE&I EFFORTS THROUGHOUT OUR SUPPLY CHAIN
to the Real Estate Executive Council’s (REEC) Diversity Initiative. In addition to our financial support we participate in their high school Our Investment & Financial subcommittee is leveraging Ventas’s influence to further drive DE&I with our preferred partners and vendors.
outreach program, REEX. Through REEX, we hosted high school students at two of our buildings in Baltimore and Boston and convened We’ve made significant progress tracking M/WBE spend in our current and ongoing ground-up construction and U.S. development projects
a panel of senior Ventas employees on careers in commercial real estate. and are working closely with our partners to increase our M/WBE directable spend at those projects. We engaged a data enrichment company
to track M/WBE operating expense spend, and are joining the National Association of Minority Contractors to drive increased M/WBE spend
The Beyond Ventas subcommittee also identified opportunities to deepen our relationship with community members in the University City (“uCity”)
within our operations. Our business leaders are also expanding our cadre of professional services providers to include M/WBE firms.
neighborhood in Philadelphia, home to six Ventas-owned life science, research and innovation (R&I) properties with one additional project
To support these efforts, we now require at least one certified M/WBE participant for every MOB-related contract-cleaning RFP that we issue.
under development. We were a sponsor of the NAIOP real estate case competition at Drexel University, taking students on a tour of our uCity
campus developments and serving as mentors as they prepared for their case competition. Our Company’s annual holiday giving drive supported As a next step, the subcommittee has developed a process to be implemented in second half 2022 to assess the DE&I practices of our
students at the Samuel Powel Elementary School and the Science in Leadership Academy Middle School (P/SLA-MS), which reside on the uCity top professional services firms and vendors.
campus. Our employees fulfilled 100% of their requested supplies, including more than 200 coats, 100 backpacks, 650 reusable water bottles
and 8,000 face masks. Opening their doors in 2021, Ventas contributed $9 million toward the construction of these state-of-the-art K-8 public
schools supporting more than 800 students from the underserved local communities.
P/SLA-MS students sent handmade thank-you notes to Ventas following the Company’s holiday giving drive.
22 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021-2022 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021-2022 23
ELPOEP
WORKFORCE DEMOGRAPHICS9
YEARS OF CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING
5
GRI: 405-1
ACCELERATING ESG PROGRESS
A LEGACY OF LEADERSHIP IN GENDER BALANCE
12%
13% Under 30 Ventas has a long track record of leadership in driving gender diversity across
46% 31% Over 60
Female
Female all levels of the organization. Our Board of Directors also leads on this front,
maintaining at least two female board members for over 20 consecutive years.
VENTAS EMPLOYEE
LEADERSHIP10
21%
TOTAL AGE
30-39
29%
50-59 2017
54% 69%
Male Male
25% FEMALE LEADERSHIP Named to 20/20 Women
40-49
on Boards, the first of
18 82
% %
five consecutive years
2017
2022
31 % 69 % 2019
3%
Two or more
Became signatory to
races
36%
49% Female United Nations Women’s
Male 5%
Hispanic Empowerment Principles
or Latino
MANAGER BOARD OF EMPLOYEE
FEMALE BOARD Named to Bloomberg GEI
AND ABOVE DIRECTORS ETHNICITY 9%
Black or 30 70 for first time, maintaining
% %
African American
2017 standing through current year
51%
64% 77%
6%
Male White
Female Asian 2022
36 64
<1% % % 2022
American Indian
or Alaska Native
2/3 NYSE-required Board
9. All circle chart percentages as of 6/30/2022. Committees chaired by women
10. Leadership defined as Ventas VP-level and above, including Executive Officers.
24 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021-2022 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021-2022 25
ELPOEP
HEALTH, WELL-BEING & SAFETY
INVESTING IN OUR EMPLOYEES’ OVERALL WELL-BEING
Underscoring our commitment to the overall well-being of our employees and their families is our industry-leading compensation and
GRI: 401-2, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 416-1, 416-2
benefits program reflecting their importance to the success of our Company.
We care deeply about the health, well-being and safety of our employees and their families and the care providers, residents and patients
that live and work in our properties. The COVID-19 pandemic underscored the importance of our commitment to holistic well-being.
MEDICAL PLANS FLEXIBLE SPENDING ACCOUNT PARENTAL LEAVE
We continuously evaluate our health and safety initiatives to ensure Ventas provides superior support and resources on behalf of our
Industry-leading medical plans (FSA) 12 weeks of 100% salary continuation
employees and stakeholders. with built-in Wellness Program Flexible savings accounts for medical for primary caregivers and 2 weeks
at low employee cost and dependent care expenses additional PTO for secondary caregivers
HEALTH SAVINGS ACCOUNT (HSA) ADOPTION ASSISTANCE
DENTAL & VISION PLANS
Health savings account for medical Financial assistance to help manage
Excellent plans at low employee cost
expenses with employer contributions adoption process costs
401(k) DISABILITY EMPLOYEE DISCOUNT PROGRAM
Tax-deferred & Roth 401(k) plan options Short- and Long-term disability plans Access to discounts on wide variety
with company match at no cost of items and services
SPOT AWARDS TUITION REIMBURSEMENT
PAID TIME OFF (PTO)
Ability to recognize colleagues with a Financial support for pursuing
Generous and flexible paid time off plans
small monetary award continuing education
EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
LEGAL INSURANCE EMPLOYEE CHARITABLE FUND
(EAP)
Affordable access to a network of Financial donations to non-profit
Confidential support for work, personal
attorneys for personal legal matters organizations nominated by employees
or family issues at no cost
Pictured: Brian Palmer,
Director, IT Security and
AD&D AND LIFE INSURANCE
Infrastructure, at Everest
Company paid Accidental Death & PET INSURANCE
Base Camp. EMPLOYEE REFERRAL BONUS
Dismemberment insurance for employee Healthcare plan for furry, feathered
Cash incentive for referring new hires
and Life Insurance for employee, spouse or scaled family members
and children
FOSTERING WELL-BEING WITH FLEXIBLE TIME OFF
EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE
CANCER & SPECIFIED DISEASE PLAN (ESPP) TRAINING & DEVELOPMENT
Ventas’s Paid Time Off (PTO) benefit provides employees with a minimum of 20 days off each year.
Additional financial support Employee Stock Purchase Plan Dedicated programs to enhance
This gives our team members flexibility to step away from work and meet their individual needs, for life-changing diagnosis provides opportunity to purchase professional and personal development
Ventas stock at a discount
whether for vacation, caring for loved ones or a mental health day.
Generally, all employees regularly scheduled to work 30 or more hours per week are eligible to participate in the Ventas Benefits Plan on their date of hire. Part-time employees working 20
or more hours are eligible to participate in a limited number of benefit plans including Paid Time Off, Parental Leave and 401(k).
26 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021-2022 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021-2022 27
ELPOEP
ENSURING A HEALTHY WORKPLACE RETURN KEEPING SENIOR CARE RESIDENTS & PROVIDERS SAFE
Our team nimbly adjusted to the ever-changing environment of the COVID-19 pandemic as we planned for a safe return to our We are enormously grateful to our senior care providers who work tirelessly to keep safe the nearly 75,000 seniors living in our
corporate offices. Of greatest importance was ensuring we provided the safest environment for our employees’ return, and that communities. With the full support of our Ventas team, our senior housing operators organized extremely successful COVID-19
employees felt safe in their workplace. With those principles in mind, we built a comprehensive return-to-office framework that remained vaccination and booster clinics. As a result of the high vaccination rates in our communities, our operators have reported largely
flexible to clinical conditions, federal and local mandates and Company and employee considerations, including the following policies asymptomatic or mild COVID-19 cases in both residents and staff despite ongoing and highly dynamic clinical conditions.
and programs:
HYBRID WORK SCHEDULE INCORPORATING EMPLOYEE FEEDBACK
LEADING WITH SAFETY AT OUR MEDICAL
Our employees’ dedication, hard work and collaboration never wavered The dedicated efforts that went into planning corporate employees’
OFFICE BUILDINGS
during those extraordinarily challenging times. Consequently, Ventas safe office return were rewarded in our subsequent return-to-work
Our dedicated onsite Lillibridge property management teams
permanently adopted hybrid work schedules to provide employees with single-topic pulse survey. As a result of the direct feedback, our 100% Lillibridge MOBs undergoing
ensure our medical office buildings are maintained to the comprehensive safety audit
greater flexibility and balance in their lives, while also preserving the management team adjusted the hybrid work schedule to better meet
opportunity to learn, grow and collaborate with colleagues in the office. the needs of our employees. highest level of health and safety, supporting our commitment
to deliver exceptional places of care to our healthcare tenants
one-time stipend for home
$500 office equipment provided and their patients. All Ventas-owned MOBs are undergoing
to all corporate employees 88% return-to-the-office pulse survey a comprehensive 68-item safety audit to ensure effective
employee participation rate
program elements are in place to identify and eliminate or
additional weeks per year
2
to work remotely control hazards that could adversely impact our employees,
75% employees responding positively to visitors and buildings. As of June 30, 2022, 107 buildings—
feeling safe in their work environment
VACCINE ADOPTION nearly half our MOB portfolio—have completed their
As vaccines became widely available in spring 2021, the Ventas safety inspection, surpassing our goal to carry out at least
Executive Leadership team, in conjunction with Human Resources, 91% employees felt encouraged 80 audits by mid-year 2022.
provided resources to help team members understand the health to stay home when sick
We endeavor to make our workplaces secure and hazard-free
benefits of the vaccines. The Company incentivized vaccination
among our employees with raffle prizes of approximately $500 in through robust workplace safety protocols, training and
value for every 10 employees vaccinated. In November 2021, education practices. In 2021, we had two lost-time incidents
Ventas adopted a COVID-19 vaccine mandate for all employees
equating to an employee lost-time frequency rate of .5 per
and visitors in our corporate offices.11
100 FTE workers.
vaccinated employees Doctors Center at St. Joseph’s Hospital
1 in 10 IREM® Certified
awarded a raffle prize
11. In accordance with changing clinical trends, guidance from CDC and local regulations, Ventas waived its COVID-19 vaccine requirement policy effective June 30, 2022.
28 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021-2022 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021-2022 29
ELPOEP
EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT
Our success is inherently tied to the talent of our team members. The Ventas culture and values are competitive advantages in a tight labor SUPPORTING OUR EMPLOYEES’ CAREER TRAJECTORIES
market that favors shared passion for integrity, execution, collaborative problem-solving and excellence. We’ve continued to attract and As a growth-focused company, Ventas has been a springboard for its employees’ careers by providing them with new and challenging
retain the best and brightest employees by closely listening to, learning from and evolving with our employees. opportunities in tandem with our business. Supported by knowledgeable mentors, a vast repository of tools and resources, and formal
training options, our team members thrive in Ventas’s advantageous approach to career development.
FORMAL FEEDBACK TOUCHPOINTS: QUARTERLY PULSE & ANNUAL ENGAGEMENT SURVEYS
The remote work environment enabled us to rethink how and when we ask for employee feedback to ensure we understand their evolving
needs and concerns. In 2021, we introduced quarterly pulse surveys—in addition to our annual engagement survey—with great success. REINFORCING OUR PASSION FOR LEARNING CULTURE
GRI: 404-1, 404-2
These pulse surveys provide us with actionable feedback that enables management to respond in real time.
Knowing that we are a company made up of curious and continuous learners, we see to it that team members have multiple opportunities
for formal education, training and development while at work. Programs offered to our employees include:
75 4
%
average employee survey pulse surveys
participation rate since Dec., 2021
Everyday Outperformance Leadership Training On-Demand Learning
Our performance management program Following a sustained period of remote Our Ventas Learning Management
encourages in-the-moment feedback work, we invested in live, in-person System offers more than 9,000 courses
and regular, ongoing career development leadership training for our corporate to our employees in diverse subjects
VENTAS CONNECT: LEVERAGING THE INTRANET TO ENRICH COMPANY CULTURE
conversations. These enriched coaching directors and managers. These leaders such as communication, software,
Ventas Connect, our corporate intranet, is the employee one-stop shop for company news and resources. Through dedicated pages, we relationships and on-the-job learning enable are providing tools to motivate, engage mental well-being, DE&I, leadership
celebrate cultural heritage months with a myriad of curated resources, bringing those celebrations closer to home by hearing directly from employees to outperform every day while and retain our employees. and career development.
pursuing their individual career goals.
colleagues within diverse communities. Ventas Connect also offers us a place to shine a spotlight on colleagues supporting their communities
through volunteer events, team members earning recognition in the industry and uplifting stories of Lillibridge property management teams
assisting tenants within our medical office and life science buildings. Ventas Connect unites our team in common purpose, fostering connection
and a shared culture throughout our work locations.
30 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021-2022 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021-2022 31
ELPOEP
PROMOTING FROM WITHIN – VENTAS LEADERS SHARE THEIR STORIES
We have a strong history of developing our leaders from within. Our track record of investing in our team is essential to attracting and retaining the
best and the brightest talent in the workforce.
“Having been with Ventas for over a decade, “I’ve been very fortunate at Ventas CHAMPIONING CONTINUING EDUCATION “Ventas empowers its employees to
I have had opportunities to grow my career to have incredibly supportive managers stay curious and engage with areas of
We encourage and empower our employees to achieve their career
across the business and also received unwavering focused on progressing my career
goals, including continuing their professional education journey. interest within and outside our immediate
support when I took a few years off to earn my based on things that interest me. Their
The resources and support we provide our employees include:
MBA. I’ve experienced firsthand a company that mentorship allowed me to open myself roles, which manifested into my desire
truly values diversity, rallies behind teammates up to opportunities I would not have • A comprehensive tuition reimbursement program to help ease to pursue my MBA. I credit my senior
the financial burden of continuing education goals.
and is committed to the highest standards.” considered otherwise.”
and executive leaders with preparing
• Company-sponsored subscriptions to leading educational
Ankit Patel Brittney Donlin
me for this opportunity by developing
SVP, Corporate Finance Director, Business Transformation institutions providing continuing professional education credits
for employees with professional licenses and certifications. my critical thinking skills and expanding
Financial Analyst, HR
FP&A 6 12 Business Analyst 5 8 • References and leadership recommendations for employees my confidence in what is possible—both
First Role Roles Since Joining Tenure (yrs) First Role Roles Since Joining Tenure (yrs) pursuing acceptance into masters programs.
critical components of success in my
upcoming MBA program. I am grateful for
“I’ve found great mentors and colleagues “Ventas has provided me an their strong advocacy and avid support
tuition reimbursement
~$3.5K
at Ventas who all genuinely care about opportunity to take on roles and per program participant throughout my professional journey at
me personally and professionally. Through responsibilities across a variety of
Ventas and for their contributing role in
these relationships, I’ve been given valuable functions and asset classes. That
insight, resources and support alongside experience has enabled me to refine my MBA acceptance.”
opportunities to expand my knowledge base my career goals and interests while
via new roles and increasing responsibilities.” progressing at the company.” WESLEY LAYUG, VENTAS ALUM AND MBA CANDIDATE,
WHARTON SCHOOL OF BUSINESS
Daniela Cinfio Mike Frumm
Director, Asset Management VP, Life Sciences
Project Manager,
Construction & Financial Analyst,
Development 3 8 Asset Management 6 10
First Role Roles Since Joining Tenure (yrs) First Role Roles Since Joining Tenure (yrs)
32 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021-2022 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021-2022 33
ELPOEP
EMPLOYEE RESOURCE GROUPS (ERGs) ERGs IN ACTION
At Ventas, our ERGs are employee-driven and enthusiastically reinforced
through senior-level sponsorship. Their ability to provide programs and
activities that meet the immediate needs and desires of our broader
Building Connections: YPN’s Chat & Lunch Roulette
employee base is an immeasurable value-enhancer for our team.
Knowing first-hand their colleagues were craving connection
Our ERGs include: beyond their immediate teams in a virtual work environment,
the YPN team organized a virtual Chat Roulette. Employees
“spun the wheel” and were assigned to random small groups to
connect with coworkers in an informal virtual chat, expanding
Young Professionals Network (YPN)
their network in a fun and casual way. The event proved to be so
Serves to increase the development of young
popular, and employee desire for connection remained so strong,
professionals through informal mentoring, social
activities and training opportunities. that YPN reimagined it after employees physically returned to
the office, replacing virtual connections with informal
Pictured: Chicago employees participated in the JPMorgan
in-person lunches.
Corporate Challenge earning miles toward
the 5K/10K Challenge.
Women’s Network
Pictured: Maurice S. Smith and Debra A. Cafaro
Dedicated to the success and engagement of women
Pictured: sit down for an exclusive conversation.
at Ventas through professional development, career
YPN Lunch Roulette participants
management and mentoring. reconnecting with colleagues over lunch
Encouraging Healthy Habits Through Competition:
YPN’s 5K/10K Challenge and Connect2Lou’s Step
Challenge
Diversity Network
Both Connect2Lou and YPN have successfully leveraged our Expanding Cultural Awareness: Women’s and Diversity
Networks Sponsored Speaker Series
Company’s love of friendly competition to encourage more
Helps shape and enhance our ability to attract and retain
diverse professionals and engage other employees healthy-living behaviors among their colleagues. Our ERGs have long been proponents of promoting cultural
through increased cultural understanding across topics awareness and inclusivity. Over the past year, both our Women’s
• Connect2Lou continued its Corporate Office Step Challenge, pitting
such as ethnicity and gender. and Diversity Networks invited leading experts to share their
our Chicago, Louisville and New York Offices against each other to
see which team could gain the most steps over a six-week period. stories and perspectives exclusively with our employees. This
By the end of the challenge, our employees amassed more than 30 includes the Women’s Network event with Kate Maehr, Executive
million steps!
Director & CEO of Greater Chicago Food Depository, a Ventas
CONNECT2LOU
• YPN increased the impact their 5K/10K wellness challenge could marquee philanthropic partner organization, and the Diversity
Focuses on enhancing the Louisville office’s connectivity and
make by securing mile-matching donations from the Ventas Network’s sponsored conversation between our Chairman and
visibility within the corporate offices and local community, Charitable Fund for two deserving charities—Meals on Wheels and
CEO Debra A. Cafaro and Maurice S. Smith, President and CEO,
including philanthropy and cross-office events. the Brain and Behavior Research Foundation. Nearly 60 employees
Health Care Service Corporation and Ventas Board Member
participated in the “feel good, do good” event, raising more than
$13,000 combined for the beneficiary charities. since 2021.
34 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021-2022 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021-2022 35
ELPOEP
SUPPORTING OUR COMMUNITIES:
CORPORATE PHILANTHROPY
We believe that Ventas has a responsibility to actively engage in improving the lives of people in the communities where we operate and
where our employees live. Our approach to giving is structured around a three-tiered framework:
Marquee Partnerships Employee Charitable Fund Civic & Community Engagement
Long-term, strategic partnerships with Financial contributions to organizations Active participation in our extended communities
BROADENING OUR IMPACT THROUGH VENTAS VOLUNTEER DAYS
organizations that meet a significant community nominated directly by employees, recognizing through volunteerism, sponsorships and
need aligned to our demographically driven causes that are important and meaningful collaboration with organizations that work to
Bolstered by the notion that united, individual actions can create exponentially meaningful changes, our Young
business and emphasizing health and well-being to our team, and supporting causes where meet critical community needs in areas such
Professionals Network provided an opportunity for employees across the company to give back to their local
(particularly seniors), education, racial equity and employees volunteer their time or are as education, health, diversity, inclusion
social justice. otherwise personally involved. and the environment. communities through Ventas Volunteer Day events.
In our Louisville office, team members Our Chicago team spent the afternoon Across our Property Management and
gathered to pack 500 bags of food in at The Greater Chicago Food Depository Leasing teams, more than 100 properties
support of Blessings in a Backpack, a (GCFD) warehouse, supporting our participated in Community Care Drives,
national non-profit organization providing marquee partner in weighing, bagging and engaging their team members, tenants
food on the weekends for school-aged packing food that would be distributed to and visitors in charity events supporting
Ventas Marquee Partners
children who might otherwise go hungry. various food banks across Cook County. 14 local organizations.
36 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021-2022 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021-2022 37
ELPOEP
30M
green building certified
square feet
medical office
86
% portfolio tenant
retention
LEED certified
60
buildings (including
PERFORMANCE
under development)
Responsible Growth & Operational Excellence
GRI: CRE8
of total ENERGY STAR
Our sustainability leadership is intrinsically linked to our focus on strong financial performance.
>70
% certified properties in the
Integrating sustainability into our business practices reduces risk, creates value for our
senior housing sector
shareholders and communities and promotes a more competitive, efficient portfolio.
Aggie Square
Targeting LEED® Silver
38 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021-2022 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021-2022 39
ECNAMROFREP
LEADING WITH PURPOSE
THE ASSEMBLY: RESTORING A LEGACY OF
INNOVATION IN PITTSBURGH ELEVATING ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITY THROUGH
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT
The Ventas team and our partners have worked closely with the
surrounding Pittsburgh community to ensure our investment has
Building on our historic strength of driving value-creating external growth, we have expanded our Life Science, Research and Innovation a positive and lasting societal impact.
(R&I) portfolio to ~11 million square feet12 via our exclusive development partnership with Wexford Science & Technology. While all the
buildings in our Life Science, R&I development pipeline target LEED silver or better, none more accurately encapsulates our winning Alongside our partners at Turner Construction, we worked to ensure the
strategy of responsible growth and development than The Assembly. demographic makeup of construction workers and contractors on site
reflected the diversity of the surrounding area. This commitment led to:
The former site of a Ford Motor Co. Model T Assembly plant dates back to 1915 and was granted landmark status in 2018. Opening
its doors again in May 2022 as The Assembly, the building has been meticulously revived and repurposed to extend its legacy as an M/WBE firms
in M/WBE
>30 participated as $12M+
innovation and technology hub, this time for oncology, immunotherapy and other life sciences research by University of Pittsburgh spend
subcontractor
researchers. Pitt anchors the building, leasing 245,000 square feet of laboratory space, with another 110,000 square feet of cutting-edge
lab, R&D, office, event and retail space for additional tenant collaborators.
The Assembly’s location and purposeful redevelopment design create a
HONORING BUILDING HISTORY THROUGH ADAPTIVE REUSE
unique urban space that expands the direct benefit of economic opportunities
The Assembly has been fully restored with environmental sustainability and respect for the history and purpose of the building at the
for Pittsburgh neighborhoods that would otherwise be excluded from such
forefront of all design decisions. Most notably, what was once the plant’s six-story vertical crane shed—a distinct architectural element
benefits, while also providing societal gain through pioneering medical research.
where rail cars once entered the building to offload auto components—is now a bustling atrium and gathering space spurring collaboration
and connectivity for the building and the community. Other adaptive reuse and sustainable building features include: Groundbreaking Research: Provides University
of Pittsburgh medical researchers state-of-the-art
• Maintained 70% of the existing building • Water efficient landscaping • Utilized construction materials laboratory space, enabling advancements in new
structure and enclosure elements, manufactured regionally (55% by cost) cancer treatments and cures to be pioneered
• Bicycle storage and changing rooms
significantly reducing embodied and/or with recycled content (32%
to encourage active commuting
carbon emissions by cost)14
1,000 Estimated Jobs: For local residents across a
• Efficient MEP design contributed to
• Combined 100% green and white PVC • Use of low-VOC-emitting materials range of educational backgrounds
overall 20% reduction in energy cost
roof design helps reduce urban heat positively impacts both outdoor
island effect13 • Thirty electric vehicle chargers available and indoor air quality Proximity to Public Transportation: Positioned along
MLK Jr. Busway and upcoming Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) system
12. As of June 30, 2022. Includes three in-progress and two recently announced developments.
13. Total roof area does not include mechanical equipment. 14. Percentages only include core and shell scope.
The Assembly
Targeting LEED® Gold
40 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021-2022 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021-2022 41
ECNAMROFREP
PORTFOLIO SHOWCASE
A TRACK RECORD OF SUSTAINABLE
UNIVERSITY CITY SQUARE
DEVELOPMENT
The University City neighborhood of Philadelphia is home to six Ventas-owned Life Science, R&I
properties with One uCity Square—an approximately 400,000 square foot tower encompassing
Ventas continues to be a leader in environmentally and socially responsible development in collaboration with our best-in-class partners, first-class lab, office and retail spaces—under development. With full Ventas support, our partners
including the pursuit of LEED green building certifications, developing urban brownfields and infill sites, and supporting urban revitalization at Turner Construction are leading the industry in engaging with the community to source qualified local
and upward economic mobilization through our developments. labor, especially among minority- and women-owned businesses (M/WBEs):
professional services local residents construction
31 contracts committed >32 make up the 41 contracts committed
% % %
to M/WBEs workplace to M/WBEs
PORTFOLIO SHOWCASE
We continue to support our partner’s efforts to expand and diversify the talent pipeline through community
One uCity
AUSTIN MOB REDEVELOPMENT engagement events such as sponsorship and participation in community job fairs, job shadows, Targeting LEED® Silver
educational events and apprenticeship programs in partnership with local area schools and businesses.
Medical Park Tower, the sole medical office building located in the
heart of Austin, Texas’s Ascension Seton Medical Center, underwent
a $30 million redevelopment, transforming the 50+ year-old building
into a modern state-of-the-art medical facility targeting LEED silver
certification. Sustainable enhancements include upgraded exterior
and roofing, installation of LED lighting, energy efficient electrical
and mechanical systems, and enhanced indoor and outdoor seating
and community gathering areas, which our tenants and patients are
already putting to frequent use.
PLACEMAKING WITH PUBLIC ART
Two spectacular 80-foot wall murals now take pride of place in the uCity Square research & innovation neighborhood. The public works of art located
on a prominent intersection were designed by Melinda Beck, a New York City graphic artist with ties to Philadelphia and Femi Olatunji, a local artist.
Medical Park Tower This placemaking initiative was made possible by a collaboration between Ventas, our uCity Square partners Wexford Science + Technology and the
Targeting LEED® Silver
University City Science Center together with the People’s Emergency Center CDC, Venture Café, 3624 Condo Association and Mural Arts Philadelphia.
Lefthand Image: In Majesty ©2021 Femi Olatunji, Kien Ngyuen / City of Philadelphia Mural Arts Program. All rights reserved.
Righthand Image: Interconnection ©2021 Melinda Beck / City of Philadelphia Mural Arts Program. All rights reserved.
42 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021-2022 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021-2022 43
ECNAMROFREP
INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY IN OUR GREEN BUILDING CERTIFICATIONS16
Green building certifications and energy ratings demonstrate Ventas’s commitment to responsible development and efficient
BUILDING OPERATIONS AND PARTNERSHIPS building operations.
ENERGY STAR LEED Other Green TOTAL CERTIFIED20
Ventas partners with best-in-class operators and care providers who share our ESG values. Our ESG team works closely with our
Certified17 Certified18 Building Certifications19
operating partners to drive progress toward achieving our ESG goals and meets regularly to collaborate and implement sustainability
Property Square Property Square Property Square Property Square
initiatives across our portfolio. Property Type Count Feet (M) Count Feet (M) Count Feet (M) Count Feet (M)
• The Ventas ESG team prepares annual energy, water and waste benchmarking assessments for our top operators and tenants
SHOP 106 9.5 18 2.1 11 1.9 132 13.3
(covering nearly 1,000 buildings, more than 80% of our total portfolio), which include property-level utility data and are reviewed together
Medical Office 25 2.1 8 0.8 6 1.0 38 3.6
with each operator to discuss trends and insights, including opportunities for efficiency measures and operational improvements.
Life Science, R&I 2 0.4 34 9.2 3 0.7 36 9.6
• With Wexford Science + Technology, we are participating in the Department of Energy’s Better Buildings, Better Plants Low Carbon
Pilot program. This initiative will help Ventas and Wexford understand challenges and identify solutions to significantly decarbonize our NNN 21 3.4 0 0.0 2 0.1 23 3.5
portfolio, as we pursue our goal to achieve net-zero operational carbon by 2040.
TOTAL 154 15.4 60 12.1 22 3.7 229 30.0
• Through ongoing cross-company collaboration with the Building Engineering and Property Management teams for Lillibridge Healthcare 25.7
In-Boundary Total 189
(Certified SF)
services, Ventas’s wholly owned subsidiary managing 52% of our medical office portfolio,15 we’re integrating ESG into critical processes
27%
% Portfolio
such as building operations, procurement, capital expenditures, and redevelopment plans. Initiatives and updates are regularly (Total SF)
socialized with Lillibridge employees at their town hall and leadership meetings. % In-Boundary 33%
Portfolio (% Certified)
“Thanks to the support of Ventas, Atria has become a sustainability leader in senior housing, 16. Data as of 8/31/2022. Chart totals may not add due to rounding. 17. Number of buildings with an active ENERGY STAR label.
18. Includes 15 developments where LEED certification is pending. 19. Other Green Building Certifications include IREM Certified Sustainable Property, BOMA 360 and CALGreen.
with green building certifications for nearly 60% of our total portfolio and the leading operator 20. Properties with multiple green building certifications are counted only once in Total Certifications.
of ENERGY STAR certified senior living communities. Together we’ve launched strategic
efficiency capex projects and innovative technology pilots, including a kitchen hood ventilation
ACCOLADES FOR OUR LEADING ENERGY MANAGEMENT PRACTICES
control device that achieved a significant reduction in energy consumption. We look forward to
In 2022, Ventas earned its second consecutive ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year – Energy
continued progress on resource efficiency and decarbonization through our partnership with Ventas.”
Management Award, and is also the top owner of ENERGY STAR certified senior housing properties
and top operator/owner of ENERGY STAR certified medical office buildings with Lillibridge and
PETER MURPHY, ATRIA MANAGER OF CAPITAL AND SUSTAINABILITY
Pacific Medical Buildings as our top MOB operators.
15. Based on portfolio NOI as of 6/30/2022.
44 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021-2022 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021-2022 45
ECNAMROFREP
DEDICATION TO TENANT & RESIDENT SATISFACTION DEVELOPING A CULTURE OF EXCEPTIONAL
The engagement and satisfaction of the tenants in our medical office buildings and the seniors residing in our Ventas-owned senior MOB TENANT ENGAGEMENT
living communities is a critical measure of our overall performance and ensures everyone with whom we engage is treated with
Our Lillibridge Leadership team prioritizes and fosters a culture where communication and
dignity and respect. client-service orientation skills are consistently enhanced and celebrated among its on-site
property teams. During Lillibridge’s 2022 Market Leaders Conference, the first in-person
TENANT SATISFACTION
gathering of Lillibridge’s property management and leasing team since November 2019,
For the second year in a row, our Medical Office portfolio ranked in the top quartile of our MOB peers for tenant satisfaction as measured by Kingsley participants attended a dedicated tenant engagement training and best practices sharing
Associates, an independent survey company and the top benchmarking tool in the industry. Across each key performance indicator, our 2021 rankings session. Our property managers left with specific communication templates, tools and ideas
increased over the prior year, which has contributed to our industry-leading 86% tenant retention rate. to further develop rapport and relationships with their tenants year-round.
A LOOK BACK ON TENANT SATISFACTION RESIDENT SATISFACTION
Our Medical Office Building portfolio has improved its overall satisfaction every year since its participation in the Kingsley survey process, Our senior housing operators represent the industry’s leading care 94 of our senior housing communities
%
conduct tenant satisfaction surveys
exceeding the Kingsley Index, which is the standard for outstanding tenant satisfaction, dating back to 2019. providers. Nearly all our providers conduct resident satisfaction surveys,
enabling us to ensure we partner with best-in-class operators focused
expected U.S. 80+ population
on serving their residents. Ventas is proud to support their efforts toward +23 % growth through 202721
MOB Overall Satisfaction post-pandemic normalcy for current and future residents, offering a vibrant
5.00 100% quality of life and maintaining the highest standards of health and safety for KI Percentile announced 2021 investment >$2.5B
the nearly 75,000 residents within our Ventas-owned communities. activity in senior housing
4.00 75%
POWERED BY VENTAS OPERATIONAL INSIGHTS (OI)TM
3.00 50% Formally launched in 2022, Ventas OI is our operational data and analytics
platform that supports active asset management. This dedicated platform
2.00 25%
fosters collaboration with our senior housing operators and managers in pursuit
of our strategy of investing in the right assets, in the right markets, with the right
1.00 0%
operators, to ultimately drive value creation and portfolio optimization.
21. Population estimates from the Organization for Economic Co-Operation and Development (OECD) as of June 2022.
noitcafsitas
llarevO
elitnecrep
IK
YEARS OF CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING
5
ACCELERATING ESG PROGRESS
Overall Satisfaction & KI Percentile Historical Data
4.39 4.43
4.21
4.05 3.96
79%
76%
55%
INDEX
7% 5%
2017 2018 2019 2020 2021
46 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021-2022 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021-2022 47
ECNAMROFREP
investment in energy
$74M
efficient upgrades
since 2018
decrease in absolute
16
% scope 1 + 2 carbon
emissions since 2018
portfolio with annual
80
% energy, water and/or waste
PLANET
benchmark assessments
Reducing Our Footprint & Protecting the Planet
GRI: 102-12, 102-15, 102-27, 102-30, 102-31, 102-32, 302-3, 303-1, 305-1, 305-3, 306-2
Ventas embraces the business and moral imperatives to preserve the planet.
21
% energy intensity
We have taken significant action on climate, demonstrating our global leadership
reduction since 2018
in environmental ambition, action and transparency.
Atria On the Hudson
LEED® Silver
48 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021-2022 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021-2022 49
TENALP
LEADING WITH PURPOSE
COMMITMENT TO NET-ZERO THE PATH TO 2040: OUR APPROACH TO NET-ZERO
Our strategy to achieve operational carbon neutrality includes three primary components to be implemented in our Office and Senior
Housing portfolios, which comprise our Company’s operational carbon footprint (scope 1 and 2 emissions).
OPERATIONAL CARBON BY 2040
ON OUR WAY… TO NET-ZERO BY 2040
Ventas has committed to:
Building on our longstanding actions promoting sustainability across our operating
Ventas has invested $74 million in energy efficiency
portfolio, Ventas became the first healthcare REIT to commit to achieving net-
upgrades since 2018:
• Develop net-zero carbon-aligned energy efficiency
zero operational carbon emissions by 2040. This pledge builds on our longstanding
• Generating a 14% return on investment goals by property type by 2025
investments in energy efficiency across the portfolio and exceeds our Science
• Saving more than 170,000 MWh of energy • Continue to invest in energy efficiency at a similar
Based Target initiative (SBTi) validated goal. Energy cadence going forward
• Reducing energy intensity per square foot by more
Efficiency
than 21% (2018-2021)
“Our net-zero goal continues our leadership
Ventas is a member of the Clean
Energy Buyers Alliance, which Achieve 60% renewable electricity procurement
in sustainability and builds on our track record
supports our evaluation of by 2030 and 100% by 2035
renewable energy options
Renewable
of achievements and commitments to date,
Energy
starting with our ongoing investments in energy
efficiency and our science-based emissions Ventas is participating in the
Invest in deep decarbonization and electrification of
Department of Energy Low
our operating portfolio through the deployment of high-
reduction target.” Carbon Pilot program to
efficiency lighting, HVAC systems, heat pumps, electric
support our exploration of
stoves and water heaters, and other technologies
building decarbonization
Electrification
DEBRA A. CAFARO, VENTAS CHAIRMAN & CEO
Any residual emissions that cannot be addressed through these actions will be abated with high-quality carbon offsets.
Investments in efficiency, renewables and electrification will be prioritized over offsets to minimize our Company’s gross emissions.
3675 Market Street
LEED® Gold
50 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021-2022 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021-2022 51
TENALP
ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE
Since 2018, Ventas has reduced its water intensity by 3%. This is driven Ventas has increased recycling in its operating portfolio to nearly 50% in
by water reduction projects and pilots across our operating portfolio, 2021, from 40% in 2018. We are working with our operators to increase
including smart irrigation systems, toilet retrofits, and low-flow fixtures. the adoption of recycling services throughout our portfolio.
We continue to evaluate and implement water technologies toward
acheiving our long-term goal.
22. Our 2018 and 2019 location-based emissions are used as a proxy for market-based emissions because we are unable to retroactively calculate a market-based figure. However, we 24. Energy and water data has been time-weighted by property for the period of ownership. Actual (non-estimated) data for 2021 is 98% for Energy and 89% for Water. 2018-2020 water
had no contractual instruments in place for alternative emissions energy products, so the location-based emissions are a reasonable proxy for market-based emissions in these years. intensities have been restated to correct data anomalies. The restated intensities increased by 3.5%, 3.7%, and 3.2% in 2018-2020, respectively. This was previously assured data; the
23. Actual (non-estimated) emissions data for 2021 is 93% for scopes 1 and 2. restatements are within the 5% materiality threshold of limited assurance.
sretem
yradnuoB-nI
latoT
TARGET 2021 PROGRESS
Reduce Water Intensity by 20% by 2028 Behind
PROGRESS TOWARD WATER TARGET24
175
TFS 000,1
rep
debuc
TARGET 2021 PROGRESS
Recycling at 100% by 2028 Behind
Same-Store (SS)
Year-over-Year %
Change in
m3/1,000 SF 100%
80% ’19-’20 ’20-’21 150 SS SS
60% -2.6% 5.4%
40%
125
20%
100
2018 2019 2020 2021 2028 0%
target 2018 2019 2020 2021
Since 2018, we have reduced our water
consumption intensity by 3%
stessA
yradnuoB-nI
%
gnilcyceR
htiw
Ventas achieved its energy intensity reduction goal 6 years early, driven
by $74M invested since 2018 in scalable energy efficiency such as LED
lighting, advanced BMS controls, and efficient HVAC equipment. These
measures reduce energy costs, enhance tenant comfort, and are reflected
in our position as the leading owner of ENERGY STAR certified senior
housing communities and medical office buildings.
TARGET 2021 PROGRESS
Reduce Energy Intensity by 20% by 2028 Achieved
PROGRESS TOWARD RECYCLING TARGET
27
24
21
18
15
2018 2019 2020 2021
2028
target
We achieved our long-term energy intensity In 2021, we had recycling available at 49%
reduction goal 6 years early of our assets
oiloftroP
yradnuoB-nI
latoT
FS 000,1/hWM
EMISSIONS ENERGY WATER WASTE
Since 2018, Ventas has reduced Scope 1 + 2 market-based emissions
by 16.3%. In 2022, Ventas announced a new goal to achieve net-zero
operational GHG emissions by 2040. This goal will be achieved through
our continued focus on energy efficiency, expanded efforts to electrify
our buildings and the transition to 100% renewable electricity by 2035.
TARGET 2021 PROGRESS
Reduce Emissions by 30% by 203022
PROGRESS TOWARD EMISSIONS TARGET23 PROGRESS TOWARD ENERGY TARGET24 Same-Store (SS)
Year-over-Year %
Change in
Scope 1 + 2 MWh/1,000 SF
’19-’20 ’20-’21 Scope 3 SS SS
-5.7% -0.1%
2028 2021
target
e2OCTM
1,000,000
750,000
500,000
250,000
2018 2019 2020 2028
target
We have reduced our Scope 1 + 2 market-based
emissions by 16.3% since 2018 and Scope 3 by 3.2%
e2OCTM
GRI: 102-12, 302-3, 303-1, 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 306-2
On Track
52 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021-2022 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021-2022 53
TENALP
AT THE FOREFRONT OF ENVIRONMENTAL GOOD FOR BUSINESS, GOOD FOR
DATA REPORTING THE PLANET: SUSTAINABLE INVESTMENT
Ventas is committed to transparency and accountability in all our business practices. Our team has reported to voluntary ESG Our team, in coordination with our operators, development partners and energy management advisors, have continued to lead the way in
frameworks for more than a decade, an essential contributor to the trust we have built with our stakeholders and the accolades we have identifying innovative and technology-leading opportunities to invest in sustainable business operations to meet our ambitious long-term
received as ESG reporting industry leaders. efficiency goals, ultimately achieving our net-zero operational carbon emissions pledge.
RETROFITTING SENIOR HOUSING WITH LED LIGHTING EXPANDING RECYCLING IN OUR MEDICAL OFFICE
BUILDINGS
Advantageous from both an energy efficiency and operational
Building on the dedication to their community, our teams continued
expenses standpoint, we’ve made significant progress toward our
to make extraordinary progress toward waste reduction, increasing
goal to retrofit our entire senior housing portfolio with LED lighting.
coverage of recycling programs in our medical office portfolio
As of June 30, 2022, 326 properties have been completely
to 65%, up from 50% in 2020.
retrofitted, a $60 million investment that has provided an average
return on investment of 12.5%. In many cases, the LED transformations
increase in recycling in 2021
+6
include upgraded fixtures, creating a better experience for residents %
Achieved CDP’s “A List” for Climate, Selected to 2021 Dow Jones Sustainability #1 listed healthcare REIT by GRESB (140 tons)
recognizing top two percent of global World Index for a third consecutive year for 5th consecutive year and less maintenance for our operators.
companies scored
TAKING ACTION ON EARTH DAY
EMPLOYING INDUSTRY-LEADING DATA MANAGEMENT TOOLS
While Ventas coordinated company-wide opportunities for our employees to celebrate Earth Day
In 2021, our team took the significant step of transitioning our environmental data to the ENERGY STAR Portfolio Manager (ESPM) data
with action, our property management teams were finding ways to engage their tenants as well. At
platform. This important exercise in environmental data management best practices builds on our leading energy management methodology,
Medical Park Tower in Austin, TX and St. Joseph Medical Center in Kansas City, MO, our employees
which is already aligned to the ENERGY STAR Guidelines for Energy Management. Working closely with our operating partners to streamline
partnered with local electronic waste and paper shredding companies to provide tenants a better
the management of our environmental data further supports our commitment to strong quality control and reporting transparency. This
way to dispose of items that typically end up in landfills. Our tenants responded enthusiastically to the
strategic decision to utilize ESPM for our entire portfolio also helps us understand asset-level building performance compared to a national
challenge: our Austin tenants recycled 2,150 pounds of electronic waste between the two buildings,
benchmark, set goals for energy performance, and prioritize investments in energy efficiency. Long term, this transition helps inform our and in Kansas City, our team collected over 12,000 pounds of paper, exceeding the shredding
broader net-zero operational carbon strategy and goals, which rely heavily on energy efficiency. truck’s capacity, and filled over 10 pallets with electronics!
54 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021-2022 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021-2022 55
TENALP
ELEVATING OUR MEDICAL OFFICE ENERGY EFFICIENCY
We have invested in profitable energy efficiency retrofits across our MOB portfolio supported by our partnership with Carbon Lighthouse,
CARBON LIGHTHOUSE IMPLEMENTATION CASE STUDY: SUTTER MEDICAL CENTER
a best-in-class data and energy insights organization. These projects are two-fold: they modernize our properties to be more energy
efficient while optimizing our buildings’ energy consumption using proprietary software, weather trends, and real-time data sensors.
Carbon Lighthouse provides ongoing performance verification and optimization to ensure savings remain in place over the long-term and
enhance tenant comfort and satisfaction. Building enhancements include HVAC and BMS upgrades, LED retrofits and occupancy sensors. Project Scope
• LED lighting upgrade
Delivering Measurable Impact
• Improve efficiency of air handling equipment
to use less mechanical cooling
• Reprogram the building management system
> 8,500 $1.6M+ 15% (BMS) to optimize equipment scheduling
• Ongoing monitoring of energy efficiency
tons carbon emission reduction energy cost savings average ROI and savings
25
> $19M 61 73
Results
dollars invested completed projects projects underway
• $89,000 annual cost savings
All statistics as of 8/1/2022.
• 24% improvement in energy consumption
• 24% reduction in carbon emissions
“Ventas is a clear example of an exemplary partnership. They are committed
• LED retrofit reduced energy from lighting by 50%
to using data to drive real environmental change. When CRE leaders
• Optimized HVAC system prevents overheating
like Ventas show that addressing energy efficiency is both profitable and
or overcooling, and improves tenant comfort
accretive to shareholder value, others will quickly follow their leadership.”
• Improved BMS scheduling reduces total HVAC
run hours and energy used Sutter Medical Center
RAPHAEL ROSEN, CARBON LIGHTHOUSE CO-FOUNDER & CEO LEED Silver
25. Reflects total investment in completed projects and projects underway.
56 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021-2022 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021-2022 57
TENALP
TASK FORCE ON CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL
STRATEGY CONTINUED RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED
DISCLOSURES (TCFD)
C. CLIMATE RESILIENCE C. CLIMATE RISK INTEGRATION
GRI: 102-15, 102-27, 102-30, 102-31, 102-32 We recognize the risks associated with high-potential flood areas. As a result, we The Ventas VP, Corporate ESG & Sustainability and Director, Corporate Risk have
set a goal to have less than 10% of our net operating income (NOI) from properties day-to-day responsibility for identifying and assessing climate-related risks. These
Ventas is committed to managing climate-related risks and opportunities in our portfolio. A summary of our response to the TCFD in high-risk flood areas (FEMA Zone A). In 2021, 4% of our NOI was from such risks are monitored on an ongoing basis and discussed and evaluated through our
properties. We primarily implement climate-related scenario analysis through our ESG Steering and ERM Committees, with oversight from their respective Board
recommendations and guidance for disclosures is below, with further detailed information available either in this report or in our
property insurance consultants, who utilize risk modeling software, incorporating committees.
response to the CDP annual climate change survey. qualitative and quantitative aspects, to analyze our portfolios. The software
produces metrics that assist in determining appropriate limits of insurance.
It also models how portfolio additions/deletions will affect expected losses. METRICS & TARGETS
GOVERNANCE STRATEGY
RISK MANAGEMENT A. METRICS
A. BOARD OVERSIGHT A. CLIMATE-RELATED RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES
Our efficiency - We track and report our operational efficiency through energy use
The Board of Directors provides oversight of our climate-related strategy, initiatives Climate-related risks and opportunities and carbon emissions metrics, and intensity relative to area.
A. PROCESS TO IDENTIFY CLIMATE RISK
and performance. As part of the Board’s dedicated focus on ESG matters, including Some of the key climate-related risks and opportunities we have identified are:
Our properties - We monitor metrics for green-certified buildings (such as LEED and
climate change, in May 2022 we re-named the Nominating and Corporate Governance Ventas has an integrated, multi-disciplinary, company-wide risk management
Physical risk - Damage from catastrophic or extreme weather and other natural ENERGY STAR). Additionally, we track our properties’ flood-risk exposure.
Committee to the Nominating, Governance and Corporate Responsibility Committee. process, which is managed through our Enterprise Risk Management (ERM)
events and the physical effects of climate change could result in losses.
This Committee is responsible for overseeing and monitoring the Company’s ESG Committee. The monitoring of climate change risks and opportunities is integrated
B. 2021 MARKET-BASED GHG EMISSIONS
strategies, goals and initiatives, including with respect to climate change and diversity, Market risk - Significant changes in the climate may result in physical damage to or into this process. Existing risks are evaluated for changes to risk likelihood or
equity and inclusion. At all regularly scheduled meetings of the Committee, the Ventas a decrease in demand for properties located in impacted areas. Additionally, climate impact, and mitigation strategies are updated as needed. New risks are discussed Absolute YoY Per 1,000 SF YoY
Chairman and CEO, Debra A. Cafaro, and VP, Corporate ESG & Sustainability provide change may have indirect effects on our business by impacting the cost or availability and evaluated for potential inclusion on the Enterprise Risk Heat Map. Results are
quarterly updates of ESG matters. The Chair of the Committee then reports to the full of property insurance on terms we find acceptable. discussed with the Ventas Board of Directors at quarterly Board meetings as needed. Scope 1 113,638 4.6% 1.7 -2.4%
Board on ESG matters at each regularly scheduled Board meeting. The Board also Scope 2 235,472 -2.0% 3.5 -8.5%
The Ventas VP, Corporate ESG & Sustainability identifies and assesses climate
receives an update from management on ESG matters at least once annually and as Regulation risk - Changes in federal, state or foreign legislation and regulation on
change risks to Ventas on an ongoing (at least monthly) basis using a range of Scope 3 435,694 -1.5% N/A N/A
otherwise warranted. Enterprise risk management (ERM) matters, including climate- climate change could require increased capital expenditures to improve the energy
internal and third-party external inputs.
related matters, are reported to the Board at each regularly scheduled Board meeting. efficiency of our existing properties and could also require us to spend more on our
The Committee and the Board provide guidance on strategy and major plans of action new development properties. C. TARGETS
B. PROCESS FOR MANAGING CLIMATE RISKS
related to climate change and other ESG matters, as appropriate.
Market opportunity - Ventas’s low-carbon products (such as LEED and ENERGY We have set a number of climate-related goals:
The VP, Corporate ESG & Sustainability coordinates with relevant internal resources
STAR certified buildings) may become more attractive to potential tenants, residents
B. MANAGEMENT ROLE to discuss and estimate how identified risks could impact the Company’s portfolio. • GHG Emissions: Reduce Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions on an absolute basis by
and customers or more affordable. Additionally, implementation of energy efficiency
If a potential substantive impact is identified, it is shared with our ESG Steering 30% by 2030 (2.5% annually); our Scope 1 and 2 goal is validated by the Science
The Ventas Chairman and CEO Debra A. Cafaro has direct oversight of climate- investment projects across our real estate portfolio may result in energy cost savings.
Committee and our ERM Committee to develop a mitigation plan. Our CEO sits on Based Targets initiative 2030
related matters as the Chair of the Ventas ESG Steering Committee and sits on
our Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) Committee. The ESG Steering Committee B. IMPACT ON STRATEGY both the ESG Steering Committee and ERM Committee, which provide a direct link • Energy: Reduce intensity (MWh/1,000 SF) for properties in our environmental
oversees company-wide initiatives to improve our environmental footprint, in addition between the activities of these committees. The Ventas Corporate Risk Management control boundary by 20% over 10 years (2% annually)
We have set a net-zero operational carbon emissions goal to support a transition department works with our property managers to assess weather-related climate
to corporate social responsibility and governance efforts. The ERM Committee • Net-zero operational carbon emissions by 2040
to a low-carbon economy. The Ventas ESG Steering Committee sets short-, risks by applying algorithms, data analytics and scenario analysis to our portfolio.
identifies, assesses and monitors enterprise-wide risks to our company, including
medium- and long-term goals that include initiatives to address climate-related Whether a risk has a substantive financial or strategic impact on our business is • Achieve LEED Silver or better on 100% of new R&I developments
climate change risks identified by the ESG Steering Committee. Our Chairman and
matters (such as investments in renewable energy and energy efficiency projects). determined based on the potential impact and likely mitigation of the risk.
CEO provides regular (quarterly or more frequent) ESG and ERM updates to our • Evaluate the cost and feasibility of LEED or equivalent for all new developments
To address potential risks, we undertake extensive risk reviews of existing
Executive Leadership Team and also obtains input for ESG initiatives, as appropriate. • Generate less than 10% of annual NOI from properties in high flood-risk areas
properties and due diligence of new properties for flooding and other climate-
(FEMA Zone A)
related risks.
58 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021-2022 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021-2022 59
TENALP
NYSE-required board
2/3
committees chaired
by women
4
new board members
appointed since 2019
45
% board diversity by
GOVERNANCE gender or ethnicity
A Company Built on Ethics & Integrity
Top
GRI: 102-18, 102-19, 102-20, 102-27, 102-29, 102-31, 102-32, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 investors invited to engage
We pride ourselves on strong, best-in-class corporate governance practices, which provide the 50 annually via board-led
foundation for long-term, sustainable value creation. Integrity, transparency and accountability outreach program
are embedded in our culture, personified by management, employees and our outstanding Board
of Directors, and reflected in our business conduct.
Sunrise at La Costa
ENERGY STAR® Certified
60 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021-2022 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021-2022 61
ECNANREVOG
ESG GOVERNANCE
YEARS OF CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING
5
At Ventas, environmental, social and governance policies and practices are integrated throughout our business, with ultimate oversight and ACCELERATING ESG PROGRESS
responsibility provided by our strong, independent and uniquely qualified Board of Directors.
EXPANDING OUR DEDICATED SUSTAINABILITY TEAM
Provide guidance and strategic oversight to management on the company’s financial
Board of Directors
and business plans, policies and decisions Since our first Corporate Sustainability Report published five years ago, our
Sustainability team has grown three-fold and, as of 2022, includes a Senior
Nominating, Governance Compensation Audit & Compliance Investment Committee Leadership Team member, in recognition of the growing importance and
& Corporate Responsibility Committee Committee • Integrates ESG into our impact of our ESG efforts.
Committee • Advises on our human capital • Oversees the quality and investment and divestiture
processes, including an
• Oversees ESG and DE&I matters management programs integrity of our internal controls,
assessment of the impact of
and initiatives, including risk management strategy
• Reviews and advises Board on acquisitions and dispositions
compensation and financial statements in
corporate governance issues and on our corporate ESG priorities
• Evaluates executive performance accordance with legal and
practices and goals
regulatory requirements
and compensation
• Identifies director nominees and
evaluates director performance
Ventas Chairman of the Board
Sets the overall vision and drives accountability across the organization
and Chief Executive Officer
2017 2019 2021
Working under the supervision of our CEO, our interdisciplinary internal Management Committees provide direction and decision-making for Ventas in their area of expertise:
ESG Steering DE&I Employee HR Steering Enterprise Risk Management
Committee Committee Charitable Committee Management Capital “Best-in-class corporate governance underpins Ventas’s business, centered around a
Led by CEO and VP, Led by CEO, EVP, Fund Led by CEO and VP, Committee Committee strong commitment to ESG leadership, a diverse and experienced Board of Directors
Corporate ESG & CIO and Senior Human Resources
Led by SVP, Deputy Led by EVP, General Led by CEO
Sustainability Investment Officer General Counsel • Oversees Human Counsel • Assesses the and robust shareholder engagement. Our Board’s longstanding commitment to ESG
• Provides oversight • Provides oversight • Responsible for Capital programs • Responsible for impact of oversight drives alignment and accountability across every aspect of our business.”
and monitoring and accountability and initiatives,
reviewing and identifying and investments and
of ESG strategy for advancing DE&I including
recommending managing the divestitures
and project at Ventas employee
distribution of Company’s risk CAREY ROBERTS, EVP, GENERAL COUNSEL AND ETHICS & COMPLIANCE OFFICER
implementation engagement
the Company’s exposure
charitable giving
62 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021-2022 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021-2022 63
ECNANREVOG
AN EXPERIENCED AND DIVERSE BOARD LONGSTANDING COMMITMENT TO
EXCELLENCE IN CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Our Board of Directors is qualified, engaged and diverse, and includes fresh perspectives to continue driving growth and value-creation for all
our Ventas stakeholders.
GENDER AND ETHNIC In May 2022, as part of our ongoing commitment to best-in-class corporate and ESG governance, we undertook additional governance
Melody C. Barnes DIVERSITY
enhancements, including eliminating the supermajority voting requirement for approval by stockholders of amendments to the By-Laws and
Co-Director for Policy and Public Affairs,
Democracy Initiative, University of Virginia Debra A. Cafaro 2
Founder of MB2 Solutions NC IC AC CC Chairman and CEO, Ventas replacing it with a majority of outstanding shares threshold; revisions to our Guidelines on Governance to clarify and more clearly articulate
CC NC the robust responsibilities of our Lead Independent Director; and consistent with the Board’s practice of regular review of Board committee
AC
45%
IC IC Diverse 4 assignments and ongoing committee refreshment, changes to the composition of the Board’s committees.
Maurice S. Smith NC AC
President and CEO,
Health Care Service Corporation
CC CC
M Foi rc mha ere l
C
J h.
i
eE fm Inb vl ee sr
tment Officer of
Franklin Mutual Advisors, LLC Women
Ethnically diverse Accountability to Board Independence 2021 Board & Director Commitment
AC
NC
IC
8 years 23 years INDEPENDENCE Stockholders Committee Meetings
TENURE
NC 1
year
IC
1
Former ChairmJ aa nm , Oe ms D ni. c S arh ee , l It no cn . KEY TO BOARD COMMITTEES AC Inde9 p1 e% ndent Proxy 100 % 98 % 4
Former CEO and Chairman, CC s
Triad Hospitals, Inc.
year
AC
A Cu od mit
m
a in ttd
e
eCompliance
Matthew J. Lustig 10
A ICC
1
41 4
y e
C NC
C
C N
a
Cno o odm m
m
Cp i mne oa in trt tps i ena
o
egt ri ao , tn G
e
C o Rvo eem srn pm a oi nt nt ce se e
ib ility
1 s1
r
ay e NC CC C B a
a
Fn
n
rah èd dna
r
eki H Lr sim n oe &g da a, gn d CN
i
no o oo gf f
.
r ,,I R t n Lh Lev
L
aA ae Czls m
a
Et rm e dsr te i acn ta et
AGE
I Nn od ne -p Ine dnd epen ent dent A providc
ed
foc
r in
oe
ur
bys -laws
s
i Bn od ae rp de cn od men mc ie
t
to en
e
sall of our a av tte er na dg ae
n
d ci ere ctor meeting m
p wu
ha
b
ix
cl i
hn
c
u ocm
uo
rb
m
de
p
ir
ra
e
o
n
cf
ty
oa
b
rd sod
a
cit ari do
ns
n
s
a
o
el
n
r v e26
NC a rs IC Investment Committee
FormeR
r
o Sb SVe
P
ur
t
t
ta
eD
n rd
.
H
R
C
ee aFe
lO
td
h, CC 6 years
Chair
6
years
AC
IC
6
6 a0 v.5
g
.y ae ga ers 5
Alignment with Board Refreshment Robust Stockholder Director Diversity
AC
3 years 2
years
Stockholder Interests Engagement
IC CC 50s
60s
NC NC Roxanne M. Martino TENURE
Managing Partner, OceanM19
Walter C. Rakowich CC Former CEO, Aurora Investment 1 100 % 4 70 % 45 %
Former CEO, Prologis, Inc. IC Management, LLC
4
AC 8 years
AC avg.
NC tenure
IC CC 6
CC
AC IC
NC annual director equity grants new directors added coverage of our outstanding board members identifying
that vest over two years since 2019 shares invited to engage as diverse by gender or
Sean P. Nolan Marguerite M. Nader
President, Nolan Capital, LLC President and CEO, <1-5 years with us ethnicity
>5-15 years
Former President and CEO, AveXis, Inc. Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc. >15 years
As of May 25, 2022 26. Directors who are executive officers of public companies cannot simultaneously serve on more than two additional public company boards.
64 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021-2022 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021-2022 65
ECNANREVOG
ABIDING BY OUR VALUES: BUSINESS ETHICS
KEEPING ETHICS TOP OF MIND
At Ventas, we have an unwavering commitment to fair and ethical business conduct. As an equal opportunity employer, we are committed We supplement on-demand, virtual and instructor-led ethics and compliance training courses with select live, in-person trainings
to protecting the diversity and human rights of individuals who support our business. This includes our directors, officers, employees and a variety of additional messaging mediums, such as email communication reminders and short videos. Our internal compliance
and subcontractors and those of our partners, suppliers and vendors. We embed this responsibility in all business functions, upholding team conducts periodic risk assessments that further inform our training program, address current business needs and augment our
the principles outlined in the United Nation’s Universal Declaration of Human Rights and embracing our commitment to integrity through Company’s risk mitigation efforts.
our Global Code of Ethics and Business Conduct; Global Anti-Corruption Policy; Political Contribution, Expenditure and Activity Policy;
All employees, including part-time, interns and contracted employees, are required to annually review and acknowledge their understanding
Human Rights Policy and Vendor Code of Conduct, all of which can be found on our website.
of our key policies, including our Global Anti-Corruption Policy and Global Code of Ethics and Business Conduct. We ensure that 100%
of these employees acknowledge key policies every year and new employees acknowledge them shortly after joining us.
VENTAS ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE PROGRAM We also host periodic, targeted and mandatory employee training focused on risks that are specific to our business and industry.
Our comprehensive Ethics and Compliance Program ensures our employees are equipped with the knowledge, tools and resources to
navigate all facets of our business while upholding our commitment to respectful, ethical and lawful business conduct. With the oversight
of our Audit and Compliance Committee, our Human Resources and Legal teams identify and roll out, training and communication topics
reminding employees of their obligations to:
Conduct themselves in Be good corporate citizens and Abide by Ventas policies Mitigate risks to our
a manner that is lawful make ethically sound decisions Company’s reputation
NEW EMPLOYEE TRAINING
and property
All new employees, including part-time, interns and contractors, are required to complete the policy acknowledgements
noted above plus additional training courses on topics such as insider trading, anti-harassment, unconscious bias and
information security awareness, within their first month of hire.
66 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021-2022 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021-2022 67
ECNANREVOG
REPORTING ILLEGAL OR UNETHICAL BEHAVIOR POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS
Ventas encourages employees and other stakeholders to bring any issues or concerns regarding perceived or potential misconduct In accordance with our Political Contribution, Expenditure and Activity Policy, we have not and will not use corporate funds or
to management’s attention. We provide multiple channels for anyone (including employees, contractors, tenants, suppliers and resources for direct contributions to federal political candidates, parties or campaigns. At times, with prior approval of the Ethics
vendors) to report business conduct concerns and complaints. The use of these channels is bolstered by our strict non-retaliation and Compliance Officer, we may contribute to a political action committee, advocate for a position, express a view or take other
policy. We escalate significant incidents to our Compliance Investigator who records, reviews and appropriately processes these appropriate action with respect to legislative or political matters affecting our Company or our interests in compliance with applicable
concerns and complaints to resolution. Significant concerns are reported to our Audit Committee on a quarterly basis. laws and regulations. We report our corporate political contributions annually; records of these contributions over the past years are
posted to and available on our website.
REPORTING CHANNELS Political contributions, expenditures and activities of certain officers and employees providing real estate investment advisory services
for private capital sources through our Ventas Investment Management business are subject to additional restrictions, certifications
and training requirements.
Manager/Supervisor
CYBERSECURITY
Ventas considers cybersecurity a serious threat and has robust practices
HR
and processes to mitigate the risk of disruption. We regularly identify 20+ years without a material
FOR EMPLOYEES and assess information security risks using industry practices aligned cybersecurity breach
Legal Department
to recommendations from the National Institute of Standards and
Technology, and engage independent security firms to conduct periodic
Ethics & Compliance Team
penetration tests in order to identify and remediate vulnerabilities.
100% employees participate in
We also work with certain business partners to assess information
Ventas Incident Reporting Hotline annual cybersecurity training
(for reporting incidents at our Ventas security risks within their organizations that could impact Ventas.
and Lillibridge properties)
Our employees receive regular training and testing on cybersecurity
protocols throughout the year, including frequent anti-phishing
campaigns with variable difficulty and results monitoring and feedback. full disaster recovery testings
2
Compliance Investigator Our IT team continually provides all employees with educational completed per year
FOR SHAREHOLDERS
resources and training to help protect themselves and the Company
Anonymous Reporting via the Company’s
from information security breaches. Ventas has not experienced any
EthicsPoint reporting hotline (reports can be
made online or through a toll-free number material information security breaches for more than two decades.
available 24/7).
68 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021-2022 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021-2022 69
ECNANREVOG
Cáleo
LEED® Silver
ABOUT THIS REPORT
Ventas is committed to providing transparent and reliable reporting on our environmental, social and governance efforts. Our disclosures are showcased
in four key ways: our Company website, ventasreit.com; Annual Report/10K; Proxy Statement; and our Corporate Sustainability Report (CSR).
Unless otherwise noted, quantitative data in this report is as of December 31, 2021. The scope of our 2021-2022 CSR is substantially all of Ventas
corporate operations and our total owned real estate portfolio, unless otherwise noted.
This report is based on the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Framework, which is used to report about an organization’s impacts
on the economy, the environment and society using ESG metrics. Additionally, Ventas has incorporated additional climate disclosures aligned with the
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) recommendations and the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
The report uses qualitative descriptions and quantitative metrics to describe our policies, programs, practices and performance. Note that many of the
standards and metrics used in preparing this report continue to evolve and are based on management assumptions believed to be reasonable at the time
of preparation, but should not be considered guarantees. In addition, historical, current and forward-looking sustainability-related statements may be
based on standards for measuring progress that are still developing, internal controls and processes that continue to evolve, and assumptions that are
subject to change in the future. The information and opinions contained in this report are provided as of the date of this report and are subject to change
without notice. Ventas does not undertake to update or revise any such statements. In this report, we are not using the terms “material” and “materiality”
as defined for the purposes of financial and SEC reporting in the United States. Instead, the terms refer to environmental, social and economic issues
that are of significant importance to our stakeholders and to the Company. These “material” issues inform our corporate responsibility strategy, priorities
and goals, and reporting.
This report covers our owned and operated businesses and does not address the performance or operations of our suppliers or contractors unless
otherwise noted. All financial information is presented in U.S. dollars unless otherwise noted.
APPENDIX
This report contains forward-looking statements relating to Ventas’s operations that are based on management’s current expectations, estimates and
projections. See the “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” on page 72. Therefore, the actual conduct of our activities, including the
development, implementation or continuation of any program, policy or initiative discussed or forecasted in this report, may differ materially in the future.
As with any projections or estimates, actual results or numbers may vary.
Website references and hyperlinks throughout this report are provided for convenience only, and the content on the referenced websites is not
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements 72
incorporated by reference into this report, nor does it constitute a part of this report.
Definitions 74
GRI Content Index 75
70 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021-2022 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021-2022 71
XIDNEPPA
CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-
LOOKING STATEMENTS
This report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and proceedings or enforcement actions that could subject us or our tenants, managers or borrowers to increased operating costs and
Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These forward-looking statements include, among others, statements uninsured liabilities; (e) the impact of market and general economic conditions, including economic and financial market events, inflation,
of expectations, beliefs, future plans and strategies, anticipated results from operations and developments and other matters that are changes in interest rates, supply chain pressures, events that affect consumer confidence, our occupancy rates and resident fee revenues,
not historical facts. Forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements regarding our and our officers’ intent, belief or and the actual and perceived state of the real estate markets, labor markets and public capital markets; (f) our ability, and the ability of
expectation as identified by the use of words such as “may,” “will,” “project,” “expect,” “believe,” “intend,” “anticipate,” “seek,” “target,” our tenants, managers and borrowers, to navigate the trends impacting our or their businesses and the industries in which we or they
“forecast,” “plan,” “potential,” “opportunity,” “estimate,” “could,” “would,” “should” and other comparable and derivative terms or the operate; (g) the risk of bankruptcy, insolvency or financial deterioration of our tenants, managers, borrowers and other obligors and our
negatives thereof. ability to foreclose successfully on the collateral securing our loans and other investments in the event of a borrower default; (h) our ability
to identify and consummate future investments in or dispositions of healthcare assets and effectively manage our portfolio opportunities
Forward-looking statements are based on management’s beliefs as well as on a number of assumptions concerning future events. You
and our investments in co-investment vehicles, joint ventures and minority interests; (i) risks related to development, redevelopment and
should not put undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which are not a guarantee of performance and are subject to a
construction projects, including costs associated with inflation, rising interest rates, labor conditions and supply chain pressures; (j) our
number of uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual events or results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by
ability to attract and retain talented employees; (k) the limitations and significant requirements imposed upon our business as a result of our
the forward-looking statements. We do not undertake a duty to update these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date
status as a REIT and the adverse consequences (including the possible loss of our status as a REIT) that would result if we are not able to
on which they are made. You are urged to carefully review the disclosures we make concerning risks and uncertainties that may affect our
comply; (l) the risk of changes in healthcare law or regulation or in tax laws, guidance and interpretations, particularly as applied to REITs,
business and future financial performance, including those made below and in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
that could adversely affect us or our tenants, managers or borrowers; (m) increases in our borrowing costs as a result of becoming more
such as in the sections titled “Cautionary Statements — Summary Risk Factors,” “Risk Factors” and “Management’s Discussion and
leveraged, rising interest rates and the phasing out of LIBOR rates; (n) our reliance on third parties to operate a majority of our assets and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021 and
our limited control and influence over such operations and results; (o) our dependency on a limited number of tenants and managers for
“Risk Factors” in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2022.
a significant portion of our revenues and operating income; (p) the adequacy of insurance coverage provided by our policies and policies
Certain factors that could affect our future results and our ability to achieve our stated goals include, but are not limited to: (a) the impact maintained by our tenants, managers or other counterparties; (q) the occurrence of cyber incidents that could disrupt our operations,
of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and its extended consequences, including of the Delta, Omicron or any other variant, on our revenue, result in the loss of confidential information or damage our business relationships and reputation; (r) the impact of merger, acquisition and
level of profitability, liquidity and overall risk exposure and the implementation and impact of regulations related to the CARES Act and investment activity in the healthcare industry or otherwise affecting our tenants, managers or borrowers; (s) disruptions to the management
other stimulus legislation and any future COVID-19 relief measures; (b) our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits and synergies from, and operations of our business and the uncertainties caused by activist investors; and (t) the risk of catastrophic or extreme weather and
and effectively integrate, our acquisitions and investments, including our acquisition of New Senior Investment Group Inc.; (c) our exposure other natural events and the physical effects of climate change.
and the exposure of our tenants, managers and borrowers to complex healthcare and other regulation and the challenges and expense
associated with complying with such regulation; (d) the potential for significant general and commercial claims, legal actions, regulatory
72 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021-2022 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021-2022 73
XIDNEPPA
DEFINITIONS GRI CONTENT INDEX
GRI: 102-55
SENIOR HOUSING PORTFOLIO Post-Acute
GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE NUMBER(S), URL(S), AND/OR DIRECT RESPONSE
Includes Inpatient Rehabilitation Facilities (IRF), Long-Term Acute Care
Operating (SHOP)
Facilities (LTAC) and Skilled Nursing Facilities (SNF). GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2016
Ventas invests in senior housing communities and engages independent
third-party operators to manage the communities pursuant to SF: Square Feet SOCIAL
management agreements. GRI 102: GENERAL 102-1 Name of the organization Ventas, Inc.
NOI: Net Operating Income DISCLOSURES 2016
102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Ventas At-A-Glance, pages 6-7; 2021 Form 10-K, pages 1-9
Triple Net (NNN)
Ventas-owned senior housing communities that are leased to high-quality TSR: Total Shareholder Return 102-3 Location of headquarters Chicago, Illinois
operators under “triple-net” or “absolute-net” leases that obligate the tenants DE&I: Diversity, Equity and Inclusion 102-4 Location of operations Ventasreit.com (Our Portfolio / Properties by Location)
to pay all property-related expenses such as real estate taxes, building 102-5 Ownership and legal form 2021 Form 10-K, page 1; 2022 Proxy Statement, page 96
insurance and maintenance. M/WBE: Minority- and women-owned businesses
102-6 Markets served Ventas At-A-Glance, page 6; 2021 Form 10-K, pages 3-7; Ventasreit.com (Our
ESG: Environmental, Social and Governance Portfolio / Properties by Location)
OFFICE PORTFOLIO
102-7 Scale of the organization Ventas At-A-Glance, pages 6-7; 2021 Form 10-K, pages 3-7, 74-76
GHG: Greenhouse gas
Medical Office/Outpatient (MOB)
102-8 Information on employees and other workers Number of employees in 2021 by employment contract and employment type:
Typically multi-tenant properties leased to health systems and their affiliated
In-Boundary: Properties within our environmental control boundary, Employment Contract Employment Type
physicians that are strategically located on or near the campus of highly rated
according to the operational control method of the GHG Protocol. This Permanent Temporary Full-Time Part-Time
hospitals and medical centers.
primarily includes our Office and SHOP portfolios, representing ~60% of Gender Male 232 6 234 4
our total owned square feet). For more details, see our website. Female 202 11 205 8
Life Science, Research & Innovation (R&I)
Region Chicago 127 6 130 3
Life Sciences, research & innovation real estate that is typically mixed-
Ventas Leadership: Ventas VP-level and above, Louisville 80 3 82 1
use and incorporates laboratory research and academic space frequently
including Executive Officers Other 227 8 227 8
affiliated with, or on the campus of, leading research institutions. 2021 Total 434 17 439 12
Lillibridge Healthcare Services (Lillibridge):
OTHER Lillibridge is a premier MOB operating business that provides property 102-9 Supply chain Ventas’s supply chain influence is limited to corporate operations and medical
office building (MOB) operations (via Lillibridge Healthcare Services, a wholly
management, marketing, leasing and advisory services nationwide.
Health Systems owned subsidiary). Procurement in the remainder of our portfolio is either the
Lillibridge is a wholly owned subsidiary of Ventas, Inc.
Leading networks of care that include general acute hospitals responsibility of triple-net tenants or building operators/managers, depending on
the building and lease type. Though we have no or extremely limited direct control
and cancer centers.
over these expenditures, as a part of our tenant engagement efforts, Lillibridge and
Ventas seek ways to encourage efficiencies in the procurement programs of our
operators, managers and tenants, as needed and appropriate.
Ventas Policy: Human Rights, pages 2-3 (Ventasreit.com - Governance Documents)
102-10 Significant changes to the organization and There were no significant changes to the organization and/or supply chain during
supply chain the reporting period.
74 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021-2022 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021-2022 75
XIDNEPPA
GRI CONTENT INDEX
GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE NUMBER(S), URL(S), AND/OR DIRECT RESPONSE GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE NUMBER(S), URL(S), AND/OR DIRECT RESPONSE
GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2016 GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2016
SOCIAL GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE
GRI 102: GENERAL 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Ventasreit.com - Planet GRI 102: GENERAL 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting 2022 Proxy Statement, page 33
DISCLOSURES 2016 DISCLOSURES 2016 purpose, values, and strategy
102-12 External initiatives Our Goals, pages 14-15; Stakeholder Engagement, pages 12-13; Environmental,
pages 52-53; Ventas Policy: Human Rights, page 2 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance Ventasreit.com (Transparency & Risk Management: Guidelines on Governance,
body pages 11-12)
102-13 Memberships of associations Ventasreit.com (Corporate Responsibility / ESG Approach)
102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s 2022 Proxy Statement, pages 28, 38; Ventas Amended and Restated Nominating
STRATEGY
performance and Corporate Governance Committee Charter, pages 2-3
GRI 102:GENERAL 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker CEO Letter, pages 4-5; 2021 Annual Report, pages 1-2
102-29 Identifying and managing economic, Governance, page 60; Ventasreit.com (Corporate Responsibility / ESG Approach)
DISCLOSURES 2016
102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Environmental, pages 58-59; 2021 Form 10-K, pages 14-34 environmental, and social impacts
ETHICS AND INTEGRITY 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes Planet, pages 58-59; 2021 Form 10-K, pages 14-34; 2022 Proxy Statement, pages
33-34
GRI 102: GENERAL 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of Ventasreit.com, Corporate Governance; Policy: Global Code of Ethics and
DISCLOSURES 2016 behavior Business Conduct; 2022 Proxy Statement, pages 4-6 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social ESG Goals, pages 14-15; Environmental, pages 58-59; Governance, page 60;
topics 2022 Proxy Statement, pages 33-34
102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about Ventasreit.com, Corporate Governance; Policy: Global Code of Ethics and
ethics Business Conduct, pages 5-7 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in Environmental, page 58; Governance, page 60; Ventasreit.com - ESG Approach
sustainability reporting
GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE
102-33 Communicating critical concerns Policy: Global Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, pages 5-7
GRI 102: GENERAL 102-18 Governance structure Governance, pages 60-64; 2022 Proxy Statement, page 9; Ventasreit.com (About
DISCLOSURES 2016 Ventas / Board of Directors) 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns In 2021 and year-to-date 2022, we have not granted waivers of any provisions of
our Global Code of Ethics and Business Conduct and no material breaches of our
102-19 Delegating authority Governance, pages 60-64; Ventasreit.com (About Ventas / Board of Directors)
Global Code of Ethics and Business Conduct have occurred that would require the
102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, Governance, page 60 filing of a Form 8-K.
environmental, and social topics
Ventasreit.com, Transparency & Risk Management
102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, Stakeholder Engagement, page 12; 2022 Proxy Statement, pages 39-40;
environmental, and social topics Ventasreit.com (Corporate Responsibility / ESG Approach) 102-35 Remuneration policies 2022 Proxy Statement, pages 48-84
102-22 Composition of the highest governance body 2022 Proxy Statement, pages 17-25; Ventasreit.com (About Ventas / Board of 102-36 Process for determining remuneration 2022 Proxy Statement, pages 48-84
and its committees Directors)
102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration 2022 Proxy Statement, pages 39-40, 56-57
102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 2022 Proxy Statement, page 32
102-38 Annual total compensation ratio 2022 Proxy Statement, page 84
102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest 2022 Proxy Statement, pages 26-28; Ventasreit.com (Transparency & Risk
governance body Management: Guidelines on Governance)
102-25 Conflicts of interest 2022 Proxy Statement, pages 29-31; Ventasreit.com - Governance Documents:
Global Code of Ethics and Business Conduct
76 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021-2022 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021-2022 77
XIDNEPPA
GRI CONTENT INDEX
GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE NUMBER(S), URL(S), AND/OR DIRECT RESPONSE
GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE NUMBER(S), URL(S), AND/OR DIRECT RESPONSE
GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2016
GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2016
GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE
REPORTING PRACTICE
GRI 102: GENERAL 102-39 Percentage increase in annual total For 2020, the median of the annual total compensation of all employees of the
GRI 102: GENERAL 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial 2021 Form 10-K, page 1
DISCLOSURES 2016 compensation ratio Company (other than our CEO) was $99,569 and the annual total compensation
DISCLOSURES 2016 statements
of our CEO, as reported in the 2020 Summary Compensation Table on page 77 of
the 2021 Proxy Statement, was $12,628,714. For 2021, the median of the annual 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries Ventasreit.com (Corporate Responsibility / ESG Approach, Planet)
total compensation of all employees of the Company (other than our CEO) was
102-47 List of material topics Ventasreit.com (Corporate Responsibility / ESG Approach, Planet)
$111,261 and the annual total compensation of our CEO, as reported in the 2021
Summary Compensation Table on page 75 of the 2022 Proxy Statement, was 102-48 Restatements of information None
$14,263,728. The ratio of our CEO’s 2021 annual total compensation to our median
102-49 Changes in reporting None
employee’s 2021 annual total compensation is 128 to 1. The percentage increase
of the annual total compensation of all employees of the Company (other than 102-50 Reporting period This report covers the calendar year beginning January 1, 2021 and ending
our CEO) was 11.74% from 2020 to 2021. The percentage increase (decrease) of December 31, 2021. Some financial data and progress toward ESG goals includes
annual total compensation of our CEO was 12.95% from 2020 to 2021. The ratio of 2022 data, which is noted as such.
our CEO’s 2020-2021 annual total compensation increase (decrease) to our median
employee’s 2020-2021 annual total compensation increase (decrease) is 1.1 to 1. 102-51 Date of most recent report Our most recent CSR was published in September 2021, covering the 2020
calendar year.
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
102-52 Reporting cycle Annual
GRI 102: 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Stakeholder Engagement, page 12; Ventasreit.com (Corporate Responsibility / ESG
GENERAL Approach) 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the Kelly Meissner, VP, Corporate ESG & Sustainability, kmeissner@ventasreit.com
DISCLOSURES 2016 report
102-41 Collective bargaining agreements As of December 31, 2021, we had 434 employees, none of whom are subject to a
collective bargaining agreement. We believe that relations with our employees are REPORTING PRACTICE
positive.
GRI 102: GENERAL 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option
DISCLOSURES 2016 GRI Standards
2021 Form 10-K, page 8
102-55 GRI content index GRI Content Index, pages 75-93
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Stakeholder Engagement, page 12; 2022 Proxy Statement, pages 39-40;
Ventasreit.com (Corporate Responsibility / ESG Approach)
102-56 External assurance Select environmental and social indicators referenced in this report have been
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Stakeholder Engagement, page 12; 2022 Proxy Statement, pages 39-40;
externally verified or assured. Verification and Assurance statements are posted on
Ventasreit.com (Corporate Responsibility / ESG Approach)
Ventas's corporate website at Ventasreit.com - Corporate Responsibility.
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Stakeholder Engagement, page 12; 2022 Proxy Statement, pages 39-40;
Ventasreit.com (Corporate Responsibility / ESG Approach)
78 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021-2022 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021-2022 79
XIDNEPPA
GRI CONTENT INDEX
GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE NUMBER(S), URL(S), AND/OR DIRECT RESPONSE GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE NUMBER(S), URL(S), AND/OR DIRECT RESPONSE
GRI 200: ECONOMIC DISCLOSURES GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2016
ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE WATER
GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Prioritizing ESG, pages 10-11; ESG Goals, pages 14-15; Governance, page 60; GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Prioritizing ESG, pages 10-11; ESG Goals, pages 14-15; Governance, page 60;
MANAGEMENT Boundary Ventasreit.com (Corporate Responsibility / ESG Approach, Performance) MANAGEMENT Boundaries Ventasreit.com (Corporate Responsibility / ESG Approach, Performance)
APPROACH 2016 APPROACH 2016
103-2 The management approach and its components 103-2 The management approach and its components
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
GRI 201: ECONOMIC 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and ESG Goals, pages 14-15; 2022 CDP Report (Ventasreit.com - Corporate GRI 303: 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Environmental, pages 52-53; Ventasreit.com (Corporate Responsibility /
PERFORMANCE 2016 opportunities due to climate change Responsibility - Transparent ESG Reporting) WATER 2016 Planet - data tables)
EMISSIONS
GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Prioritizing ESG, pages 10-11; ESG Goals, pages 14-15; Governance, page 60;
RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT
MANAGEMENT Boundaries Ventasreit.com (Corporate Responsibility / ESG Approach, Performance)
GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Prioritizing ESG, pages 10-11; ESG Goals, pages 14-15; Governance, page 60; APPROACH 2016
103-2 The management approach and its components
MANAGEMENT Boundary Ventasreit.com (Corporate Responsibility / ESG Approach, Performance)
APPROACH 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
103-2 The management approach and its components
GRI 305: EMISSIONS 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Environmental, page 52; Ventasreit.com (Corporate Responsibility /
2016 Planet - data tables)
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions
G4 ASPECT: CRE8 Type and number of sustainability certification, ESG Goals, pages 14-15; Performance, pages 38 & 49; Ventasreit.com 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions
PRODUCT AND rating and labeling schemes for new construction, (Performance - Responsible Investment)
EFFLUENTS AND WASTE
SERVICE LABELING management, occupation and redevelopment
GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Prioritizing ESG, pages 10-11; ESG Goals, pages 14-15; Governance, page 60;
MANAGEMENT Boundaries Ventasreit.com (Corporate Responsibility / ESG Approach, Performance)
GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE NUMBER(S), URL(S), AND/OR DIRECT RESPONSE
APPROACH 2016
103-2 The management approach and its components
GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2016
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
ENERGY GRI 306: EFFLUENTS 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Environmental, page 52; Ventasreit.com (Corporate Responsibility / Planet - data
AND WASTE 2016 tables); Ventasreit.com (Corporate Responsibility / Planet - data tables)
GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Prioritizing ESG, pages 10-11; ESG Goals, pages 14-15; Governance, page 60;
MANAGEMENT Boundaries Ventasreit.com (Corporate Responsibility / ESG Approach, Performance)
APPROACH 2016
103-2 The management approach and its components
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
GRI 302: 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Ventasreit.com (Corporate Responsibility / Planet)
ENERGY 2016
302-3 Energy intensity Environmental, pages 52-53; Ventasreit.com (Corporate Responsibility / Planet
- data tables)
80 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021-2022 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021-2022 81
XIDNEPPA
GRI CONTENT INDEX
GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE NUMBER(S), URL(S), AND/OR DIRECT RESPONSE GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE NUMBER(S), URL(S), AND/OR DIRECT RESPONSE
GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2016 GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2016
EMPLOYMENT DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY
GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Prioritizing ESG, pages 10-11; ESG Goals, pages 14-15; Governance, page 60; GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Prioritizing ESG, pages 10-11; ESG Goals, pages 14-15; Diversity, Equity and
MANAGEMENT Boundaries Ventasreit.com (Corporate Responsibility / ESG Approach, Performance) MANAGEMENT Boundaries Inclusion, pages 18-25; Governance, page 60; 2022 Proxy Statement, page 4;
APPROACH 2016 APPROACH 2016 Ventasreit.com (Corporate Responsibility / ESG Approach and People; About
103-2 The management approach and its components 103-2 The management approach and its components
Ventas / Board of Directors)
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
GRI 401: 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that Social, page 26-29 GRI 405: DIVERSITY 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees People, pages 16 & 24; ESG Goals, pages 14-15; Ventasreit.com (Corporate
EMPLOYMENT 2016 are not provided to temporary or part-time employees AND EQUAL Responsibility / ESG Approach and People; About Ventas / Board of Directors)
OPPORTUNITY 2016
TRAINING AND EDUCATION
CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY
GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Prioritizing ESG, pages 10-11; ESG Goals, pages 14-15; Governance, page 60;
MANAGEMENT Boundaries Ventasreit.com (Corporate Responsibility / ESG Approach, Performance) GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its People, pages 26-29; ESG Goals, pages 14-15; Governance, page 60;
APPROACH 2016 MANAGEMENT Boundaries Ventasreit.com (Corporate Responsibility / ESG Approach, People)
103-2 The management approach and its components APPROACH 2016
103-2 The management approach and its components
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
GRI 404: 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Ventasreit.com (Corporate Responsibility / People)
TRAINING AND GRI 416: CUSTOMER 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of ESG Goals, pages 14-15; People, pages 26-29; Ventasreit.com (Corporate
EDUCATION 2016 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and Social, page 31; Ventasreit.com (Corporate Responsibility / People) HEALTH AND SAFETY product and service categories Responsibility / People)
transition assistance programs 2016
416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the ESG Goals, pages 14-15; People, pages 26-29; Ventasreit.com (Corporate
404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular Ventasreit.com (Corporate Responsibility / People)
health and safety impacts of products and services Responsibility / People)
performance and career development reviews
82 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021-2022 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021-2022 83
XIDNEPPA
ventasreit.com
CORPORATE OFFICES
55 West 46th Street 353 North Clark Street 500 North Hurstbourne Parkway
Suite 2204 Suite 3300 Suite 200
New York, NY 10036 Chicago, IL 60654 Louisville, KY 40222
