
2023 CSR Report About Verisk Table of Contents
About Verisk
Verisk (Nasdaq: VRSK) is a leading data, analytics, and technology provider serving clients
in the insurance ecosystem. Using advanced technologies to collect and analyze billions
of records, we draw on unique data assets, insurance industry knowledge, and technological
expertise to provide valuable solutions that are integrated into client workflows. We offer
predictive analytics and decision support solutions to clients in rating, underwriting, claims,
catastrophe, weather risk, and many other fields. In the United States and around the world,
we help clients protect individuals, communities, and businesses. With teams across more
than 20 countries, Verisk consistently earns the Great Place to Work® Certified™ company
designation and fosters an inclusive culture where all team members feel they belong.
For more information, visit Verisk.com and the Verisk Newsroom.
For more information on Verisk’s Corporate Social Responsibility program, please visit our
CSR website.
To access Verisk’s policies, governance documents, and annual financial and sustainability
reports, please visit our ESG Resource Library.
2 / ©Verisk / verisk.com
2023 CSR Report A Message to Our Stakeholders Table of Contents
A Message to
Our Stakeholders
I’m pleased to share our 2023 Corporate Social and transition risk scenario analyses, described how The Company also conducted a human rights risk
Responsibility Report, a report that marks the tenth Verisk businesses are capitalizing on the opportunities assessment aimed at identifying potential areas of
year of Verisk’s sustainability journey. associated with climate change, and summarized our human rights risk in the Company’s operations and
efforts and progress to reduce emissions 21% by 2024 supply chain.
The journey has been inspired by our mission to be compared with a 2019 baseline.
the leading strategic data analytics and technology Those are just some of the highlights. None would
partner to the global insurance industry and by our We continued to embrace the challenge of building have occurred but for the efforts of our corporate
commitment to maximize stakeholder value over the and maintaining an outstanding workplace culture. sustainability team under the leadership of Chief
long term. Our passion for the mission and the depth Our efforts are evidenced by the relationships we’ve Sustainability Officer Pat McLaughlin, who
of our commitment to stakeholders have helped drive established to create opportunity, the training we established and guided our program, and the
progress year after year and sustain our momentum deliver to enhance performance and growth, and the contributions and accomplishments of my 7,000+
despite the challenges facing all businesses, such as networks we encourage to help all employees feel Verisk colleagues around the world who make it
a global pandemic and the “great resignation” or welcomed and valued. Our results are evidenced by possible to take each step. I’m proud to be associated
the bespoke challenges associated with our the deep bench of experienced and skilled with them. They understand the importance of the
business alone. professionals we’ve called upon over the past 24 destination and come to work each day prepared to
months to replace retiring or departing senior leaders; continue the journey.
The initial steps of our journey, small but sincere, consistently strong employee engagement scores; and
have since given way to longer strides marked by recognition by the Great Place to Work Institute in
sharper vision and greater confidence. Our business multiple countries year after year.
is now strictly aligned with the needs of the global
insurance industry we serve and, in large part, Verisk’s Board of Directors continued to strengthen its
strengthened by the environmental, social, and oversight of the business, adopting a risk dashboard Lee M. Shavel
governance initiatives we’ve implemented along and risk review calendar requiring in-depth President and Chief Executive Officer
the way. Last year was no exception. assessments of six risk categories throughout the
year, in anticipation of forming a Risk Committee of
During 2023, Verisk published its first-ever report in the Board during 2024. The Company reinforced its
accordance with the framework recommended by the codes of conduct and associated marketplace and
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures workplace policies with an extensive training
(TCFD). The Report featured the results of physical curriculum required of all employees and contractors.
3 / ©Verisk / verisk.com
2023 CSR Report Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Working with Purpose 05 Governance 33
Much of our work helps people, communities, and businesses Led by our Board of Directors, Verisk reinforced its commitment to
become stronger, more resilient, and more sustainable. See examples sound governance through strengthened risk oversight, new policies,
from the past year. mandatory training initiatives, and transparency.
Environmental 12 Appendix A: SASB Disclosure 38
During 2023, Verisk published its first-ever report in accordance with For the fourth consecutive year, Verisk has published a report
the framework recommended by the Task Force on Climate-related in accordance with the Sustainability Accounting Standards
Financial Disclosures (TCFD). Review the highlights to learn how the Board (SASB) template for professional and commercial
Company is addressing the TCFD’s four pillars: Governance, Strategy, services companies.
Risk Management, and Metrics and Targets.
Corporate Leadership 43
Social 20
Meet Verisk’s executive leadership team and Board of Directors.
Verisk’s approach to employee engagement, training and
development, and diversity and inclusion has resulted in recognition
by the Great Place to Work® Institute in multiple countries.
Charitable Giving 28
Our corporate giving strategy, which aligns with our mission, is
supplemented by support for organizations serving communities
where our employees live and work, a matching gifts program, and
paid time off for volunteering.
4 / ©Verisk / verisk.com
Working
with Purpose
“For more than 50 years, our work has contributed
to impactful solutions and informed public policy, and
many of our colleagues have applied their professional
expertise to help the communities where they live
and work.”
– Patrick McLaughlin, Chief Sustainability Officer
2023 CSR Report Working with Purpose Table of Contents
Much of our work helps people, The Dataset also includes updated subnational gas concentration pathways. Not surprisingly, the
socioeconomic indices measuring the adaptive research indicates that, during the next several
communities, and business
capacity of nations, the sensitivity of societies to decades, a warming climate will affect the amount
become stronger, more resilient, climate change, and overall climate vulnerability. of area susceptible to wildfires in many parts of
The updated information complements existing the western U.S.
and more sustainable. Here are
national-level transition indices, which quantify
examples from the past year. risks associated with emissions, climate litigation, Climate plays an important role in influencing the
carbon policies, and environmental regulations. frequency, intensity, and extent of wildfires. Its impact
on wildfire risk is a growing concern, especially as
In addition, with data covering more than 170 temperatures rise and droughts become more frequent
Verisk Maplecroft Unveils Climate Risk
environmental, political risk, and human rights issues, and more extreme, creating the conditions favorable
Dataset, Providing End-to-End Geospatial Verisk’s research into the interconnected nature of risk for wildfires. Continued development in areas exposed
Insight into Physical and Transition Risks can also help organizations identify where secondary to wildfires compounds the risk. In addition to climatic
climate impacts such as food insecurity, migration, changes, the model considers such variables as
economic instability, and civil unrest may emerge. the abundance and dryness of vegetation that fuels
Verisk Maplecroft has launched a new Climate Risk
wildfires and the weather conditions suitable for
Dataset to help insurers, corporates, banks, and
spreading them.
investors identify exposures to current and future
climate risks.
The projections were developed in consultation with
members of Verisk’s Climate Advisory Council, leading
Based on the latest climate model projections,
climate experts who provide strategic guidance on the
the Dataset features Verisk’s newly released climate
evolving state of climate change and feedback on the
scenarios, which assess how physical risks such as
solutions Verisk is developing. Verisk clients use the
heat, precipitation, drought, and sea level rise will
Wildfire Model to assess the risk of future losses for
evolve over time across different emissions pathways.
property exposures; inform climate risk reporting to
The Dataset also includes global risk indices covering
regulators, investors, and other stakeholders; and
Climate-related socioeconomic vulnerabilities and an
develop mitigation and adaptation strategies for
array of transition issues.
their businesses and customers.
In all, the Climate Risk Dataset covers 32 hazards and Climate Change Projections Incorporated
During the past year, Verisk participated in public
issues globally, and the Climate Scenarios encompass
into U.S. Wildfire Model to Help forums in the states of California and Washington
16 physical climate risks across seven time periods
Stakeholders Understand Future Risk to inform stakeholders about the tools used by the
and three emissions pathways. The combination
industry to understand wildfire risk and encourage
amounts to more than 330 global climate hazard risk
indices with subnational granularity, which enable the Verisk has released climate change projections data-driven approaches to addressing potential
identification of risks to assets and specific locations for its U.S. Wildfire Model, providing a probabilistic market implications associated with wildfire in
across global operations, supply chains, and portfolios. view of future wildfire risk through mid-century vulnerable areas of the western U.S.
across multiple socioeconomic and greenhouse
6 / ©Verisk / verisk.com
2023 CSR Report Working with Purpose Table of Contents
According to the report, with accelerating global risk
and rising uncertainty, corporations and investors can
no longer afford to consider resilience as a defensive
measure. Instead, it must be brought to the forefront
of strategic thinking and ingrained within their
growth strategies. The winners will be those that
can successfully anticipate a progressively opaque
and complex world that is shaped by increasingly
interconnected risks.
The report, which builds on a more extensive research
paper published by the WEF and Verisk on the value of
rethinking and prioritizing organizational resilience,
was produced for members of the World Economic
Forum’s Consumer Industries Partner Community.
2023 Global Modeled Catastrophe Losses
Report Helps Stakeholders Understand the
Drivers of Extreme Event Loss
Joint Report by World Economic The report, Rethinking Resilience in an Age of
Using loss metrics from Verisk’s latest suite
Forum and Verisk Maplecroft Analyzes Unpredictability, utilizes a unique, horizon-scanning
of extreme event models and updated industry
methodology, combining Verisk Maplecroft’s Industry
Future Risks to the Resilience of exposures, the Company’s 2023 Global Modeled
Risk Analytics with analysis from its team of political,
Consumer Industries Catastrophe Losses report estimated modeled insured
human rights, and environmental experts. The Industry
annual average losses from natural catastrophes at
Risk Analytics quantify 51 ESG and political risks
$133 billion. According to the report, that means the
A new report authored by the World Economic Forum across 198 countries for 80 different industries.
insurance industry should be prepared to experience
(WEF) and Verisk Maplecroft found that agriculture
total insured losses from natural catastrophes well in
is the weakest link in consumer supply chains because
The analysis shows that civil unrest, modern slavery
excess of $100 billion every year.
of its high exposure to a range of environmental, social,
and more stringent human rights due diligence laws,
governance (ESG), and political risks that consumer
and climate change vulnerability were the top three
Over the past five years, actual insured losses from
industries will need to prioritize if they are to build
challenges confronting all sectors identified as
natural catastrophes globally have averaged $101
resilience in the face of an increasingly interconnected
consumer industries over the short, medium, and long
billion, compared to an average of approximately
global risk landscape.
terms. Agriculture stood out as having the highest risk.
$70 billion over the previous five-year period.
7 / ©Verisk / verisk.com
2023 CSR Report Working with Purpose Table of Contents
The report also quantifies the difference between hurricanes by providing complimentary access to
insured and economic losses—the protection gap— ALERTTM—real-time information that goes beyond
which represents the cost of catastrophes to society, meteorological data to include summaries of
much of which is ultimately borne by governments exposure at risk and potential impacts.
and individuals. With insured losses from natural
catastrophes representing only about one-third of The Red Cross intends to use ALERT’s insured loss
more than $400 billion in total economic losses, estimates—based on the event’s actual parameters
the global protection gap appears to be sizable. calculated using Verisk extreme event models specific
to the location and peril—to better analyze and project
used to predict how pollutants will affect the ambient
Multiple factors are contributing to the higher deployment and resource priorities earlier in its response
environment and whether new or existing sources
estimates, including a rise in exposure values, process. Soon after the arrangement was finalized, the
comply with regulatory standards governing emissions
continued construction in high-hazard areas, an Red Cross accessed ALERT for information about
concentrations. The models are also useful when
inflationary environment that continues to drive Hurricane Idalia.
designing industrial facilities, helping architects and
up repair costs, and the effects of climate change
engineers configure their sources to minimize the
on different atmospheric perils. The American Red Cross prevents and alleviates
ambient impacts.
human suffering in the face of emergencies by
The report is complimentary. In addition to clients, mobilizing the power of volunteers and the generosity
The pre-assembled and easy-to-use programs
it helps inform multiple sectors including emergency of donors. Access to ALERT puts the American Red
associated with the models can be accessed by
management, hazard mitigation, public disaster Cross on equal footing with Verisk’s leading clients,
users—such as air quality consultants, regulatory
financing, risk pooling, and other government-led reinforcing our commitment to strengthen resilience
agencies, and research organizations—using a secure
risk- and loss-mitigation initiatives aimed at for individuals and communities worldwide.
web interface. AER also supports university professors
enhancing global resilience.
who use the tool in classrooms, teaching students the
fundamentals of performing air quality calculations.
Cloud-Based Offering from AER Gives
Users Easy Access to Air Quality Models AER is dedicated to advancing scientific understanding
of the atmosphere, ocean, and space environments
Scientists at Verisk’s Atmospheric and Environmental and translating this knowledge into actionable
Research (AER) business have transitioned a package information for clients.
of standard air quality models from their AQCast
service to an AWS cloud platform, enabling users with Complimentary Access to ALERT
varying levels of sophistication to perform emission
Service Now Helping the American Red
and dispersion calculations—that is, air
Cross Prepare Its Response Efforts to
quality forecasts—on their own.
Major Catastrophes
Air quality models are essential to the permitting
process for smokestack industries such as power Verisk Extreme Event Solutions is helping
plants and many manufacturing facilities. They are the American Red Cross strengthen its situational
Photo credit: Scott Dalton/American Red Cross
assessments of major catastrophic events such as
8 / ©Verisk / verisk.com
2023 CSR Report Working with Purpose Table of Contents
Verisk Buildings Data Being Used Verisk’s national database of building characteristics, Building code evaluations have a similar public
ranging from age and construction to building
safety component: Comparatively speaking,
to Help Local Authorities and Energy
footprints, helps drive the domestic heat demand communities with well-enforced, modern building
Networks Assess Decarbonization model and underlies a range of calculated heating codes fare better during catastrophic events such
Pathways for the UK metrics, such as estimated annual demand and peak as hurricanes, representing an investment that saves
heating loads. Verisk was invited to participate in the lives and reduces property losses. Verisk’s work in
Verisk’s comprehensive database of buildings and project because it is the only source in the commercial conjunction with FEMA’s National Flood Insurance
their characteristics has become an essential element market that maintains building fabric information at Program helps assess community-level efforts to
of geospatial models and planning tools being used by the requisite level of detail and coverage. reduce and avoid flood damage to insurable properties.
a range of public and private stakeholders in the UK to
identify and assess their future energy demands and Engagement with Municipal Officials In addition to these activities, Verisk hosted a two-day
potential decarbonization pathways. Promotes Awareness of Industry conference to discuss emerging issues facing the
fire service. The conference involved senior leaders
Approaches to Identify and Mitigate
representing the U.S. Fire Administration, the National
Property Risk
Association of State Fire Marshals, the National Fallen
Firefighters Foundation, the National Fire Sprinkler
Through a combination of in-person and virtual Association, and the Fire Department of the City of
presentations, Verisk professionals conducted nearly New York.
175 sessions involving community officials interested
in learning more about the Company’s evaluation of
municipal fire suppression capabilities, building code
enforcement efforts, and floodplain management
practices. The presentations drew more than
7,700 attendees.
The municipal fire protection evaluations Verisk
One such project already underway—Project RESOP, conducts in the United States on behalf of the
or Regional Energy System Optimisation Planning—is property/casualty insurance industry confirm
integrating data from multiple sources in a single tool response area boundaries; communications and
to help develop the rollout of low-carbon technologies dispatch capabilities; the adequacy of staffing, training,
for individual communities such as Dundee, Scotland. apparatus, and equipment; and the availability and
The project is modeling estimated demand building by sufficiency of water sources needed to address
building and the impact of potential solutions across structure fires. Many communities have reported
the community, including the use of heat pumps, that they rely on Verisk’s criteria to plan, budget,
rooftop solar panels, and charging points for and justify improvements in their fire protection.
electric vehicles.
9 / ©Verisk / verisk.com
2023 CSR Report Working with Purpose Table of Contents
Verisk professionals, who include medical, legal, Rating classifications identify comparable exposures,
and insurance specialists, also reviewed and resolved allow premium and loss data to be aggregated
more than 50,000 conditional payment recovery consistently, and ultimately provide the structure for
claims related to the Medicare program, returning informed underwriting, coverage, and pricing decisions.
approximately $15 million to the Medicare Trust Fund. There are approximately 1,000 rating classifications
associated with Verisk’ General Liability program and
Verisk’s efforts—which enhance the ability to approximatel 450 rating classifications associated
coordinate benefits, recover conditional payments, with it Businessowners program.
and accurately allocate costs between public- and
private-sector payers—help keep the Medicare The changes to the Businessowners program were
Trust Fund solvent for the approximately 65 among 160 new classifications designed to keep
million beneficiaries who depend on it. pace with a broader transformation involving small
businesses. More than 300,000 new small businesses
Verisk Claims Services Help U.S. Medicare New Rating Classifications Help Insurers have been created each year in four of the past five
Trust Fund Serve the Needs of Beneficiaries Keep Pace with Sustainability Transformation years, with many engaging in new or nontraditional
activities or services not contemplated by
and Payers
existing classifications.
Verisk has introduced additional rating classifications
As the largest provider of Medicare compliance in its General Liability and Businessowners programs
Regulatory Need Spurs Significant
services in the industry, Verisk plays a critical role in to help insurers address new exposures emerging from
coordinating the interests of injured parties, employers, the sustainability transformation. The new Enhancement to Verisk’s Mozart
insurers, and Medicare itself to ensure that claims are classifications reflect risk associated with activities Form Composer® Technology
settled fairly and expeditiously and that costs are involving electric vehicles, electric vehicle charging
apportioned appropriately. stations, solar panel contractors, coworking spaces,
How can insurance regulators apply consistent
and more. A new classification aimed at organic mulch
standards when reviewing a myriad of insurance carrier
During 2023, Verisk reported more than 2 million and soil product manufacturing will be added in 2024.
policy forms? That’s a complex challenge made even
coverage records to Medicare as part of Medicare’s
more daunting when the many topics addressed by the
mandatory reporting requirements with respect to
forms aren’t always expressed in the same language
beneficiaries who have coverage under non-group
by different insurance companies, or even by the same
health plan arrangements, or who otherwise receive
company across multiple lines of business.
judgments, settlements, or other types of payment
from liability insurance, no-fault insurance, or workers’
The challenge prompted Verisk to develop a
compensation. In addition, Verisk submitted nearly $1
major innovation for its Mozart Form Composer®
billion in workers’ compensation set-aside funds to the
technology, leading to the creation of Mozart
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services for review
for Regulators.
and approval, which helps protect beneficiaries from
a post-settlement denial of Medicare payments.
10 / ©Verisk / verisk.com
2023 CSR Report Working with Purpose Table of Contents
Mozart® was designed initially to help insurance climate change and increased seismic activity, whether In the absence of robust data for the U.S., the team
carriers manage the policy language in their solar panels represent an emerging fire risk, and how surveyed data from Australia, Germany, Italy, Japan,
proprietary insurance forms against the language in electric vertical take-off and landing aircraft (“eVTOLs”) and the United Kingdom to examine the extent of fire
similar forms filed by Verisk. The system contains may be flying certain passenger routes in selected risk presented by the installation of solar panels. Their
more than 860,000 forms in its repository and cities in the very near future. findings: Far fewer than 1% of all solar installations
continues to grow. catch fire and, even then, the causes of such fires
Reporting on the potential impact of droughts on could involve faulty installation, the presence of
Mozart for Regulators builds on this technology with maritime shipping, the team highlighted that record flammable vegetation, defective components, and age,
a new, active learning solution that incorporates both drought conditions forced Panama Canal officials to among others.
machine learning and a human-in-the-loop approach impose draft depth limitations on commercial cargo
over a language model that regulators can easily train vessels. These measures caused a maritime traffic Thanks to their drone-like design and use of batteries,
to detect complex topics such as “civil commotion” jam on both sides of the canal and cost shipping the team reported that eVTOLs may offer a safer and
within the context of particular lines of business. The companies time and money in their efforts to greener option than gas-powered helicopters. NASA
solution enables regulators to track the treatment of move goods and raw materials. sees a wide range of use cases for the vehicles,
those topics across multiple insurers no matter how ranging from air taxi services and last-mile cargo
they are worded in a policy form. The team also reported that, in recent years, hauling to deployment in wildfire suppression.
geologists have observed an apparent correlation
Emerging Issues Team Offers Perspective between water weight on the earth’s surface and
the potential for earthquakes. Past seismic activity
on New and Unique Risks Facing Insurers,
has prompted some researchers to investigate the
Risk Managers
potential effects of increased global precipitation
and drought on earthquake frequency.
Verisk’s emerging issues team continues to
monitor a wide range of developments and trends
to help insurers and risk management professionals
better identify and understand the risk exposures
of the future.
Among the topics they spotlighted during 2023: The
potential impact of droughts on maritime shipping and
associated supply chains, the potential links between
11 / ©Verisk / verisk.com
Environmental
“As a critical partner to the global insurance industry,
whose participants rely on Verisk’s rating, coverage,
and claims services to drive their businesses, we view
this [TCFD] report as more than just an exercise in self-
reflection. It’s an acknowledgment that we understand
and appreciate the trust our clients place in Verisk and
a commitment to not take such trust for granted.”
– Lee M. Shavel, President and Chief Executive Officer
2023 CSR Report Environmental Table of Contents
Governance
During 2023, Verisk published
its first-ever report in accordance Verisk’s governance framework includes a Board of An overview of Verisk’s climate governance structure
with the framework recommended Directors and Board-level committees responsible for and a description of roles and responsibilities are
the evaluation of major financial and operational risks presented in Chart 1 and Table 1, respectively.
by the Task Force on Climate-
to the enterprise and oversight of the Company’s ESG
related Financial Disclosures strategy, including public disclosures. The Chief
Executive Officer and senior leadership team set
(TCFD). The highlights are
strategic priorities to mitigate risk, capitalize on
summarized below and the full opportunities, and promote resource stewardship.
report can be accessed here.
Introduction and Overview
Verisk engaged Agendi, a leading independent
consultant and accredited CDP services provider,
to help structure the deliberative processes, conduct
the physical and transition risk scenario analyses,
and guide the preparation of content. A broad,
multidisciplinary team of Verisk professionals
participated, including senior representatives from
all line and staff departments in the Company.
The resulting report addressed the four pillars set
forth in the TCFD framework: Governance, Strategy,
Risk Management, and Metrics and Targets. The
following is a summary of each section.
13 / ©Verisk / verisk.com
2023 CSR Report Environmental Table of Contents
Table 1: Description of climate governance roles and responsibilities
Board of Directors • Meets quarterly and as necessary to review major financial and operational risks to the enterprise and as part of a corporate-wide annual
Risk Survey addressing all risks to the enterprise, including Climate-related risks.
• Actively monitors internal operational strategies, including those related to the security of data, vulnerabilities associated with office and
work environments, and the safety of employees.
• Engages management on business strategies, which include quantifying investments that help customers address risks associated with
climate- and weather-related events.
Governance, Corporate • Meets semi-annually and as necessary to evaluate the Company’s key ESG risks and opportunities, including its climate strategy, and
Sustainability, and provides oversight of the Company’s public disclosures and shareholder engagement concerning sustainability matters.
Nominating Committee
• Assists the Board by overseeing the Company’s corporate sustainability program.
Audit Committee • Conducts a quarterly review of the full risk dashboard, including Climate-related risks, that follows from the Company’s annual Risk Survey.
of the Board
• Reviews Verisk’s annual greenhouse gas emissions inventory, including progress against emission reduction targets.
Chief Executive • Sets Verisk’s operational agenda for addressing stakeholder expectations associated with climate change.
Officer (CEO)
• Champions critical investments and resource allocations required to address strategic Climate-related risks and opportunities.
• Promotes responsible environmental stewardship, including measuring and disclosing carbon-related emissions against specified emission
reduction targets.
Senior Vice President • Leads Verisk’s annual Risk Survey, which identifies the Company’s most significant internal and external risks in terms of likelihood and
(SVP), Enterprise potential impact.
Risk Management
• Provides regular updates to the Board on the status of mission-critical risks.
Chief Sustainability • Provides leadership in aligning corporate priorities with the sustainability expectations of stakeholders.
Officer (CSO)
• Leads the company’s annual emissions inventory, climate reporting, and progress against the Company’s climate strategy.
• Communicates Verisk’s ESG stewardship commitments and progress to internal and external audiences.
Business Unit • Assess Climate-related risks and opportunities within the parameters of their respective operations.
Presidents
• Collaborate with senior leadership to address risk and pursue Climate-related business opportunities, including acquisitions, investments in
new and existing products, and consideration of new markets.
14 / ©Verisk / verisk.com
2023 CSR Report Environmental Table of Contents
Strategy b. Transition Risk Analysis c. Opportunities
Verisk assessed potential exposure associated The Company’s climate and weather solutions,
Verisk conducted quantitative and qualitative climate
with four categories of transition risk across short-, summarized in Chart 2, will continue to evolve from
scenario analyses to assess the propriety of its current
medium-, and long-term time horizons. Transition three core activities: (1) providing tools to promote
operating assumptions and strategies associated with
risks are those associated with achieving a lower- greater understanding around the likelihood and
physical and transitional risks and the alignment of
carbon global economy: Policy and Legal, consequences of a catastrophic event; (2)
existing climate adaptation plans.
Technology, Market, and Reputation. Each transition aggregating and analyzing data to promote
was considered within the context of factors likely to programs that incentivize loss-mitigation efforts;
a. Physical Risk Analysis
mitigate, reduce, or prevent such risk from emerging. and (3) continuing to conduct scientific research
The physical risk analysis encompassed six hazards: that leads to operational uses benefitting society.
Four acute hazards (heatwave, hurricane/cyclone, The report concluded that Verisk is not exposed
inland flooding, and wildfire) and two chronic to any physical or transition risks that could There are also many opportunities for optimizing
hazards (sea level rise and water stress). It was be characterized as having critical impact and efficiency, minimizing resource consumption, and
conducted using Shared Socioeconomic Pathways potentially requiring a major pivot of business, reducing emissions. The focus will include four
(SSP) scenarios developed by the Intergovernmental strategy, or financial planning. areas: (1) effective space utilization; (2) an optimal
Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) depicting a “middle technology infrastructure; (3) travel management;
of the road” scenario and a “worst case” scenario. and (4) increased engagement with suppliers.
The “middle of the road” scenario (SSP 2-4.5)
assumes a scenario where the world follows a
path in which social, economic, and technological
trends do not shift markedly from historical
patterns. The “worst case” scenario (SSP 5-8.5) is
premised on deteriorating climate and weather
conditions arising from unabated emission levels
continuing over the long term.
The output of the quantitative analysis was
then reviewed against a qualitative assessment
model devised by Agendi. The model provided an
impact score by assigning qualitative estimates of
severity and resiliency for each of the six physical
hazards.
15 / ©Verisk / verisk.com
2023 CSR Report Environmental Table of Contents
Chart 2: Verisk’s Climate and Weather Services
Global risk indices Extreme event models
• Assess physical and transition climate risk across 198 countries. • Extreme event models for 80+ countries help customers assess
• Address more than 30 hazards and issues, with the majority the threat of various perils associated with climate risk.
assessed at the subnational level. • Examples include a hurricane model for the U.S.; an inland flood model
• Help clients conduct portfolio, corporate, and asset-level risk for central Europe, Great Britain, Japan, and the U.S.; a multiperil crop
assessments and scenario analyses. insurance model for Canada, India, and the U.S.; and a typhoon model for
China, Japan, Southeast Asia, and South Korea.
Scientific applications benefitting society Individual risk assessment
• Study atmospheric and oceanographic changes, climate, weather, • Address-level risk information in the U.S. to help insurers underwrite
and associated phenomena. and price individual policies and manage portfolio exposure.
• Contribute to a broad scientific ecosystem and help transform • Exposures include flood, hurricane, severe thunderstorm, tornado, wildfire,
leading-edge research into operational uses that benefit society. winter storm, and more.
• Solutions range from an autonomous carbon dioxide and methane • Scores from Building Code Effectiveness Grading Schedule (BCEGS®) and
measurement system to real-time flood mapping solutions. Public (fire) Protection Classifications (PPC®).
• On-site property surveys to meet the specific requirements of clients.
Event response and claims management Loss estimates for global risk and supply chain
• Track events in real time, inform response and recovery efforts, • Independent loss estimates on catastrophes and large individual
and empower clients to resolve insurance claims quickly and accurately. losses, widely accepted as triggers in many traded financial
• Real-time weather analytics and loss estimates, video collaboration tools market instruments, including reinsurance contracts,
to triage and fast-track property claims, claims management and reporting catastrophe bonds, catastrophe swaps, industry loss warranties,
software, repair and reconstruction cost-estimating software, personal contents and other derivative instruments.
estimations, and more.
• ClaimSearch®, the world’s largest database of property/casualty claims.
• Integrated fraud prevention capabilities.
Risk management platforms Community hazard mitigation programs
• Robust data and analytics integrated into risk management • Assessments of municipal building codes/enforcement on behalf
platforms and tools that clients use to manage asset- and of the U.S. insurance industry.
portfolio-level exposure associated with location, climate, • Evaluations of fire suppression capabilities across nearly 45,000
weather, and extreme events. U.S. fire protection districts.
• Touchstone® enterprise risk-modeling platform and Sequel • Complimentary training and consulting for municipal building code
Impact are utilized across the insurance industry. and fire officials interested in strengthening resilience.
16 / ©Verisk / verisk.com
2023 CSR Report Environmental Table of Contents
The report noted that Verisk is well positioned The Company’s Business Continuity Program is also Verisk reports emissions on both a location-basis and a
to address the potential impact of physical and an essential part of the risk management framework, market-basis. Absolute Scope 1 and 2 emissions
transition risk on its business. The Company is helping to ensure the continuity of critical business calculated on a location-basis—that is, before
advantaged by (1) an efficient and nimble operating processes in the event of an incident rendering renewable energy certificates (RECs) or their equivalent
model, (2) long-term investments in technologies that facilities inaccessible, computer systems inoperable, are applied—indicate that Verisk exceeded its internal
increase data-processing efficiencies and empower and/or employees unavailable. The Program target to reduce such emissions 21% by 2024
remote working capabilities, (3) the establishment incorporates standards compliant with ISO compared with a 2019 baseline. After discounting the
of formal engagement channels with key clients and 22301:2019 requirements and oversight by a effects of the 3E and Financial Services divestments,
suppliers, and (4) a continued focus on developing Crisis Management Team composed of senior Verisk’s actual reduction through year-end 2022 was
innovative Climate-related solutions. executives representing various disciplines. approximately 30.5% compared with the 2019 baseline.
Risk Management Metrics and Targets The internal target was calculated by Ecometrica,
a CDP-accredited solutions provider using Science
Based Targets initiative (SBTi) guidance aligned with a
Verisk’s most comprehensive examination of Table 13 in the report, which presents Verisk’s CDP-
1.5°C global future.
risk takes place as part of an annual Risk Survey. reported emissions for the period 2019-2022,
The survey engages a wide variety of corporate is reproduced below.
and business unit leaders to identify the most
important risks to the Company. At the completion
of the Survey, all risks are ranked by their level of
impact and assigned to various members of the
management team who are responsible for creating
and implementing action plans, which may be
subject to future audit. The results of the Survey
and subsequent assignments are shared with
Verisk’s Board of Directors, with the status of
those identified as mission-critical risks reviewed
with the Board on a quarterly basis.
In addition to the corporate-wide annual Risk Survey,
Verisk also conducts Information and Technology
Risk Management Assessments, Location Risk
Assessments, and Employee Travel Safety
Risk Assessments.
17 / ©Verisk / verisk.com
2023 CSR Report Environmental Table of Contents
Verisk has remained focused on a multiyear
strategy that increases operational efficiency and
lowers costs while delivering meaningful emissions
reductions across its data-processing activities, real
estate footprint, and on-site services. Emissions
measured per unit of revenue and per full-time
equivalent employee (FTE) are key indicators of
Verisk’s efforts to reduce emissions and improve
operational efficiency.
Graphs 1 and 2 illustrate trends in Verisk’s location-
based emissions intensity (Scope 1 and 2) measured
on the basis of revenue (per million $) and employee
counts (per average annual FTE). The trends are
measured from 2015, the year of the Company’s
first emissions inventory, and are unadjusted for
the effects of acquisitions and divestments.
18 / ©Verisk / verisk.com
2023 CSR Report Environmental Table of Contents
Verisk Continues Tree Plantings in Recognition of Earth Day
For the seventh consecutive year, Verisk celebrated Earth Day by planting
trees in conjunction with The Canopy Project®, an initiative sponsored
by EARTHDAY.ORG (EDO).
The latest gift will add 10,000 mangrove trees to India’s Sundarbans
ecosystem, on top of the 10,000 trees funded by Verisk during 2022. The
Sundarbans region, located at the mouth of the Ganges and Brahmaputra
Rivers, adjoins the Bay of Bengal, and the project is crucial to protect the
region from threats posed by rising sea levels, frequent storms, and the
inundation of salt water into agriculture lands.
According to EDO, reforestation efforts will help protect the coastline, restore
fisheries and other marine life, and further promote the natural resilience,
biodiversity, and economic viability of the area. Mangroves also serve as
powerful carbon sinks. In addition to the environmental benefits, the project
will include efforts aimed at educating local villagers about the importance of
the mangroves to help ensure their survivability and success.
This is the third time Verisk’s Earth Day gift has helped sponsor a project in
India. In other years, gifts have been used to support projects in Brazil,
California, Cameroon, and Puerto Rico.
Additional information on the project can be found here.
Photo credit: NASA / EarthDay.org
19 / ©Verisk / verisk.com
Social
“We recognize the importance of attracting and
retaining top talent and fostering an inclusive culture
where our employees and company can grow together.”
– Sunita Holzer, Chief Human Relations Officer
2023 CSR Report Social Table of Contents
Our Workplace
We value Learning. Our deep domain expertise
enables us to invent the future for the industry and our
clients.
We value Caring. We care about growing our business,
our capabilities, and our skills and about helping our
customers and communities grow with resilience.
We value Results. Good stewards, we continually
innovate processes and technologies that deliver
productivity and cost-effectiveness at scale.
Percentages are based on a total employee population
of 7,457 as of 12/31/2023.
21 / ©Verisk / verisk.com
2023 CSR Report Social Table of Contents
Employee Engagement Recognizing Verisk as a Great Place to Verisk was also recognized by Great Place to Work
Work on multiple Best Workplaces™ lists.
Verisk actively seeks feedback from employees
when they first join the Company, after they For the eighth consecutive year, Verisk received For the third consecutive year, Great Place to Work
complete their first 90 days on the job, through an certification from Great Place to Work® for outstanding UK named Verisk among UK’s Best Workplaces for
annual engagement survey of all employees, and workplace culture in the United States. Verisk received Women™, an award recognizing the fair representation
through exit interviews. These opportunities are the fourth-time certification in the United Kingdom, Spain, of women in the workforce and in management; UK’s
foundation of a continuous loop of engagement, and India, and second-time certification in Poland. Best Workplaces in Tech™, celebrating companies that
feedback, action, and change. Collectively, these countries represent approximately excel in creating collaborative environments that drive
87.5% of our global workforce. innovation and personal growth for their employees;
The centerpiece of the process—Verisk’s annual and UK’s Best Workplaces for Wellbeing™, which
employee engagement survey—is a confidential, Great Place to Work is a global authority on workplace assesses company support for the work-life balance,
voluntary exercise conducted by an independent, culture and the impact of employee experience on fulfillment, job satisfaction, psychological safety, and
third-party provider to ensure the integrity and revenue, talent acquisition and retention, and financial security of its employees.
impartiality of the results. Employees are encouraged innovation. To achieve certification, Verisk surveyed
to participate. The survey includes questions that employees on the extent to which they reported a For the second consecutive year, Great Place to Work
(1) gauge employee sentiment regarding past events, consistently great workplace experience—considering named Verisk one of the Best Workplaces in Málaga™
present experiences, and future expectations, and factors such as company leadership, values, inclusivity, (Spain), an award celebrating companies leaving a
(2) explore various facets of the employee experience, and innovation. mark on the sustainable growth of the region while
including learning and development, leadership fostering a culture of trust and innovation.
effectiveness, alignment with purpose and values,
diversity and inclusion, feedback and recognition, Verisk was also named to the 2023 Great Places
and well-being. The questions designed to gauge to Work: Best Workplaces in the UK™ (for super large
employee sentiment comprise the engagement index. organizations), Spain, and Poland—awards
Insights from the balance of the questions in the recognizing a culture of trust, pride, and camaraderie.
survey help inform our annual action planning
process, guiding our efforts to foster an engaging
and fulfilling employee experience.
Verisk’s employee engagement score for 2023
was 78%. Over the past four years, employee
engagement scores have consistently ranged
between 76% and 78%.
22 / ©Verisk / verisk.com
2023 CSR Report Social Table of Contents
Learning and Development Learning Breaks career path, which includes much of the same
training. For its part, Verisk offers participating
The Company also welcomed more than 9,600
Verisk takes a multi-tiered approach to help attendees to targeted live and virtual training employees a combination of incentives including
employees grow as people and professionals, with sessions—known as “Learning Breaks”—on topics payment for courses, study aids, and exam fees,
programs encompassing leadership development, such as performance management, motivation, paid time off to prepare for exams, paid time off to
on-demand learning, organized learning breaks, and feedback, and creativity. These also included take exams, bonuses for passing exams, incremental
support for professional certification and continuing regional “Career Con” events featuring expo-style adjustments in salary, recognition for milestones,
professional education across multiple disciplines. career fairs for internal employees. and payment of fees associated with memberships
in professional societies. At year-end 2023,
approximately 150 employees were part of the
In addition to voluntary learning and development
Actuarial Program, including 35 Fellows and 45
programs, Verisk also requires employees and
Associates of the Casualty Actuarial Society,
contractors to complete an extensive curriculum
and more than 85 employees were engaged
of mandatory training programs to promote risk
as business analysts.
awareness and avoidance. The curriculum is
described in the Governance section.
Verisk’s Insurance Education Program is designed
for employees wishing to increase their insurance
Leadership Development
knowledge by pursuing a course of study leading to
A critical aspect of Verisk’s talent strategy is to
one of the industry’s professional designations such
build and support a strong leadership pipeline.
as those offered by the Insurance Institute of America,
During 2023, more than 300 participants completed
as well as Chartered Property Casualty Underwriter,
nearly 2,200 hours of leadership training aimed at
Insurance Data Management Associate, Project
rising professionals and first-time managers. All
Management Professional, Registered Professional
new managers were invited to participate within
Liability Underwriter, and Workers Compensation
the first few months after assuming their roles.
Certified Professional. Verisk’s support differs by
Professional Development program but includes a combination of payments
On-Demand Learning
Verisk supports a range of programs for employees that may cover preparatory classes, study aids and
All employees are encouraged to take advantage interested in developing professional expertise and exam fees, paid time off for study and exam days,
of Verisk’s On-Demand Learning Program, which the advancing their careers. Two of the leading programs bonuses associated with the successful completion
Company makes available through LinkedIn Learning. are described below: of exams and programs, recognition for milestones,
Courses are self-selected and self-paced. During 2023, and payment of fees associated with memberships
nearly 5,300 employees consumed more than 12,000 in professional societies. At year-end 2023, Verisk
Verisk’s Actuarial Program is designed for employees
hours of training. Among the most popular courses: was represented by nearly 140 employees who had
wishing to gain a thorough understanding of actuarial
“Customer Experience Leadership,” “SQL Essentials,” earned such designations.
science and the property/casualty insurance industry.
“Excel Essentials,” and “Build a Personal Learning
The program offers an actuarial career path structured
Plan and Stick With It.”
to lead to a potential fellowship in the Casualty
Actuarial Society, as well as a business analyst
23 / ©Verisk / verisk.com
2023 CSR Report Social Table of Contents
Verisk also encourages and supports employees Diversity and Inclusion Employee Network Mentoring
pursuing and maintaining professional designations A global mentoring program sponsored by Verisk’s
or best-practice certifications across a wide range Verisk is committed to providing a workplace that Employee Networks is helping participants find an
of associated disciplines, including but not limited reflects our global presence and where multiple inclusive space in which to develop themselves, grow
to cybersecurity (e.g., ISC2’s Certified Information perspectives are valued as a driver of innovation their careers, and build community. In the third and
Systems Security Professional, GIAC’s Certified and excellence. largest cohort to date, 224 mentee/mentor pairs
Incident Handler, and Offensive Security’s Offensive enrolled in the program, spanning 14 business
Security Certified Professional), meteorology Employee Networks functions in 30 locations across 11 countries.
(e.g., the American Meteorology Society’s Certified They recorded nearly 2,000 hours of mentoring
The Company embraces its commitment to being
Consulting Meteorologist), and human resources throughout 2023.
an inclusive workplace by sponsoring nine Employee
(e.g., Society for Human Resource Management
Networks. The most recent Employee Network—
SHRM-Certified Professional and SHRM-Senior
the Verisk Indigenous Network—was launched in
Certified Professional).
September in conjunction with the National Day for
Truth and Reconciliation in Canada. It honors our
Lean Six Sigma
Indigenous colleagues and promotes reconciliation
The aim of Verisk’s Lean Six Sigma program is efforts through learning, truth-telling, and
to promote greater efficiency, better service, and celebrations of their history and contributions.
increased satisfaction for both internal and external
clients. Employees participate on a voluntary basis. Almost one-third of Verisk employees are members
More than 2,500 current employees have earned of an Employee Network:
“yellow belt” certifications, which cover fundamental
principles and skills. Since the program was launched
at Verisk in 2017, more than 150 employees have Days of Understanding
earned “green belt” certifications, attesting to the In furtherance of the CEO Action Pledge for
capability in undertaking process improvement Diversity & Inclusion, Verisk hosted its second
initiatives. installment of Days of Understanding in July.
Led by members of our Employee Networks,
Over the years, credentialed employees have the sessions explored courageous topics and
completed more than 1,000 successful projects, large conversations around colorism, transgender
and small, that save time, reduce costs, and improve rights, women’s rights, working parent challenges,
the employee and customer experience alike. During and navigating a civilian world as veterans.
2023, Verisk’s Lean Six Sigma team led or supported
multiple global initiatives that are helping Verisk grow The kickoff session featured guest speaker
while saving more than 60,800 hours companywide. Doug Melville, author and Global Head of Diversity,
The team also developed a strategy to reduce the Equity & Inclusion for an international luxury holding
size of Verisk’s office footprint, an initiative that company. More than 1,000 Verisk employees around
will ultimately lower operating costs and reduce the world participated, and they reported a 98%
greenhouse gas emissions. approval rating in the post-event survey.
24 / ©Verisk / verisk.com
2023 CSR Report Social Table of Contents
Network Highlights In commemoration of Veterans Day and National
Verisk Asian Employee Network hosted a discussion Veterans and Military Families Month, Verisk
on the evolution and pros and cons of Asian American Valor Network hosted a symposium featuring
and Pacific Islander (AAPI) Heritage Month; sponsored RecruitMilitary’s Chris Newsome, who discussed
a panel that shared insights on working in politics and how companies can support veterans facing the
developing federal policy; and listened to Jenny Low, challenges of transitioning to civilian life.
Director of Constituency Affairs for New York State
Governor Kathy Hochul, describe the impact Verisk Women’s Network celebrated Women’s
volunteering has made on her transition from the History Month by organizing a virtual presentation
private sector to the public sector. The Asian Employee and engagement session with Julia Boorstin, CNBC’s
Network also participated in a joint event with the Senior Media & Tech Correspondent and author of
Verisk Pride Network and Verisk REACH Network When Women Lead. To commemorate Breast Cancer
to discuss a book, The Hidden Assault on Our Civil Awareness Month, the Jersey City Women’s Network
Rights by Kenji Yoshino. sponsored a raffle for the Susan G. Komen Foundation
and organized a “pink-out walk” in mid-October. Photo credit: Thurgood Marshall College Fund
Verisk Pride Network hosted a powerful session in
advance of Transgender Awareness Month, inviting The Jersey City chapter of Verisk Parents Network
British playwright and actress Abigail Thorn to discuss organized a back-to-school supply drive to help Scholarship
the state of transgender rights across the globe. support Jersey City families in need. New backpacks,
Verisk’s multiyear financial commitment to the
notebooks, folders, calculators, pens, pencils, and
Thurgood Marshall College Fund helps students
Verisk REACH Network celebrated Juneteenth other supplies were donated to the Triangle Park
at Historically Black Colleges and Universities
by joining Rev. Dr. Forrest Pritchett, director of the Community Center.
access the education and resources necessary
Martin Luther King, Jr. Leadership Program at Seton
for a successful career.
Hall University, for an event that featured traditional Supporting Education and
Juneteenth cuisine. Employees could also sign up
Promoting Career Opportunities In Verisk’s headquarters community of New Jersey,
for a Juneteenth-inspired cooking class with Kadon
the Company offers partial scholarships to students
Barnwell, executive chef at Cree Wine Company.
Through scholarship, sponsorship, and internship, pursuing a business or STEM-related degree at
Verisk supports a variety of organizations that promote Rutgers University and St. Peter’s University. In
Verisk Unidos Network helped employees tap into the
educational and career opportunities for deserving addition, the Company supports the Rutgers Business
year’s Hispanic Heritage theme of “Prosperity, Power,
candidates. Here are highlights from 2023. School B-Star Program, where Verisk staff engaged
and Progress” with a discussion led by Utah State
with students to provide a perspective on the soft
Senator Luz Escamilla. In 2008, she was elected to
skills necessary to prepare for the transition to the
the Utah State Senate, becoming the first Latina
corporate world.
elected to the Senate and the first immigrant
elected to serve in the Utah state legislature.
25 / ©Verisk / verisk.com
2023 CSR Report Social Table of Contents
Verisk also supports SEEDS, a New Jersey-based organization dedicated to improving the
lives of motivated, high-achieving students from low-income households by giving them access to top-
tier educational opportunities. In addition to providing financial support, Verisk hosted a workshop
featuring participants in the Company’s Early Career Foundations Program and Data Science Excellence
Program, who spoke to their personal educational and career journeys and offered advice to SEEDS
scholars.
Sponsorship
In addition to its traditional recruiting channels, Verisk attracts qualified candidates by engaging
professional and industry organizations, including those advancing the interests of underrepresented
groups. During 2023, Verisk sponsored organizations and programs supporting women, people of color,
the LGBTQ+ community, and others.
National African American Insurance Association
AnitaB.org Grace Hopper Celebration
(NAAIA)
Association of Professional Insurance Women
Northeastern University Women in Technology
(APIW)
Black Engineer of the Year Award (BEYA) Organization Latino Actuaries (OLA)
10,000 Interns Foundation Reimagining Inclusion for Social Equity (RISE)
Code Path SheCanCode
Photo credit: SEEDS
Gamma Iota Sigma Women in Machine Learning & Data Science
International Association of Black Actuaries (IABA)
26 / ©Verisk / verisk.com
2023 CSR Report Social Table of Contents
Verisk is also proud to partner with RecruitMilitary,
an organization serving military personnel making the
transition to civilian life. Open positions at Verisk
are automatically posted to the RecruitMilitary site, and
Verisk’s recruiters have access to review candidate
resumes submitted to the site.
Internships
Verisk is a long-time supporter of YearUp, a not-for-
profit organization whose mission is to close the
opportunity divide by ensuring that young adults
have access to the skills, experiences, and support
that will help empower them to reach their potential
through higher education and careers.
Since beginning the relationship in 2015, Verisk
has hosted nearly four dozen YearUp students
for six-month internships in various departments
across the Company, such as Finance, Information
Security, Information Technology, and Marketing.
Upon completion of their internships, a significant
percentage of the students convert to full- or part-time
positions at Verisk, including 4 out of 5 from 2023.
In addition to supporting the YearUp program,
Verisk offers paid summer internships, experiential
education opportunities, and apprenticeships.
Photo credit: YearUp
27 / ©Verisk / verisk.com
Charitable Giving
Verisk’s approach to giving reflects the company’s
mission to help people, communities, and businesses
become stronger, more resilient, and more sustainable.
It operates on four tiers: At the corporate level, at the
business unit level, through a matching gifts program,
and with support for employee volunteering.
2023 CSR Report Charitable Giving Table of Contents
Corporate Giving Verisk Supports Efforts by GeoHazards International to
Make Nepal’s Schools Safer During Earthquakes
Support from Verisk helped GeoHazards International
We seek opportunities with organizations addressing
(GHI) complete construction of an earthquake-resistant
issues of global and local significance, whose missions
school building in Nepal. In addition to keeping children
and activities complement our professional expertise
safer, the project integrated training for local masons,
and brand, and where a combination of our unique
including women, in an area that faces very high
data analytics, tools, professional expertise, and financial
seismic risk. Learn more about the project here.
assistance can help the recipients maximize the impact
and reach of their efforts. Corporate gifts are typically
made to support specific projects or purposes. The Verisk is also helping GHI explore the feasibility
following stories highlight four of our 2023 engagements. of introducing “earthquake desks” to vulnerable
schools in western Nepal, where such desks potentially
Verisk Extends Commitment to Help the represent an immediate improvement in safety for
International Rescue Committee Prepare for existing schools that wouldn’t otherwise be rebuilt
Humanitarian Emergencies or refitted for decades. The project follows Verisk’s
prior support of a successful earthquake desk project
Since 2017, and now into 2024, Verisk will supplement
involving schools in neighboring Bhutan. The desks
its financial support for the International Rescue
manufactured in Bhutan—each sheltering two children
Committee (IRC) by providing complimentary access to
and light enough to move easily—proved to withstand a
Verisk Maplecroft’s geopolitical risk analytics and
vertical drop of rock and concrete weighing nearly half a
country-level experts—key ingredients in preparation
ton, while standard desks flattened under a lesser load.
of the IRC’s annual Emergency Watchlist.
Gift from Verisk Helps The Bowery Mission Improve
The Emergency Watchlist identifies the 20 countries
Program Effectiveness Photo credit: The Bowery Mission
at greatest risk of experiencing deteriorating
humanitarian crises during the succeeding year and Support from Verisk is helping The Bowery Mission’s
helps the IRC strategize the deployment of staff and Program Effectiveness and Strategy team analyze and
Founded in the 1870s, The Bowery Mission serves
resources in anticipation. As a global humanitarian align operating procedures and project management
people experiencing homelessness in the New York
response organization, the IRC’s dedicated field teams to achieve better outcomes for the clients they serve.
City metropolitan area, providing individuals with
enter some of the most dangerous and challenging
emergency food, shelter, and personal care and
places on earth, providing healthcare and clean It’s the latest in a series of gifts from Verisk that
providing longer-term residential programs to
water, protective services for women and children, helped The Bowery Mission purchase and implement
help men and women transform their lives.
education, and economic support. a new case management system to support the
Program Effectiveness and Strategy team. In addition
You can learn more about the 2024 Emergency to financial assistance, Verisk’s Lean Six Sigma
Watchlist here. experts also conducted training for key personnel
tasked with executing process improvements to
strengthen services.
29 / ©Verisk / verisk.com
2023 CSR Report Charitable Giving Table of Contents
Business Unit Giving United States of America
• American Red Cross
Each year, a percentage of Verisk’s charitable
• America’s Freedom Festival
funds are allocated to the Company’s business units
• Asheville Area Habitat for Humanity
to support organizations that serve the communities
• CarePoint Health
where we live and work or are of special interest to
• Carolina Wildlife Center
our employees. During 2023, gifts were made to the
• Center for Disaster Philanthropy
following organizations.
• Dartmouth-Hitchcock Health
Carbon Monoxide Alliance
• DuPagePads
Canada Spain
• Federal Alliance for Safe Homes (FLASH)
• GiveDirectly
Photo credit: Team Rubicon • Autism Canada • Cruz Roja • Halo Flight
• Fundación ONCE
• Int’l. Assoc. of Women in Fire and
Verisk’s Property Estimating Tool Helps Team United Kingdom • Ronald McDonald Emergency Services
Rubicon Serve Communities Dealing with Disasters House – Malaga
• Liberty Science Center
Access to Verisk’s Xactimate® property claims • Blood Cancer UK • Maui Food Bank
estimation software continues to help Team Rubicon • Brain Tumour Poland • Mobilization for Justice
carry out critical parts of its mission to serve Research • National Association of Hispanic Firefighters
communities dealing with disasters. • cathARTic C.I.C. • Malopolska Hospice • National Association on Mental Illness
• Lewisham Local for Children • New City Kids
Xactimate is the insurance industry’s most powerful • Parkinson’s UK • New Mexico Out of School Time Network
and comprehensive tool for measuring and scoping • Renewable World • North Utah County Cycling Club
Germany
losses and creating accurate estimates of the cost • Spread a Smile • Portland Art Museum
of repairs. It includes up-to-date and reliable local • The Flying Seagull • Rainforest Trust
information on building costs and materials. Team Project • Kindernöte e.V. • Roadrunner Food Bank
Rubicon uses Xactimate to estimate the scope and • Unseen • Tafel Köln • St. Louis Park Emergency Program
value of its work following disasters and validate bids • WaterAid • St. Lucy’s Emergency Shelter
from contractors during the home rebuilding process. India • Success in Education Foundation
• Sweet Paws Rescue
Singapore
Team Rubicon is a veteran-led humanitarian • United Way of • Team Rubicon
organization built to serve global communities Hyderabad • Team Walker
before, during, and after disasters. During 2023, • Willing Hearts • The Hoboken Shelter
it completed 134 operations, calling on nearly 29,000 • United Way of Utah County
volunteers to serve 260 communities. • Vermont Community Foundation
• Wildlife Center of Southwest Florida
30 / ©Verisk / verisk.com
2023 CSR Report Charitable Giving Table of Contents
Matching Gifts Program Volunteering collected donations. They also grabbed their gardening
tools to spruce up the surroundings of a local
healthcare center and educational facility.
Verisk matches the giving preferences of employees Verisk encourages volunteerism. Employees have the
and retirees who make donations to recognized option of using eight hours of paid time to participate
United Kingdom
501(c)(3) organizations in the United States and in an event organized for Verisk Volunteer Week or use
registered charitable organizations in the United their time throughout the year to support a cause of Our colleagues in Newcastle helped develop a new
Kingdom. Subject to program limits, matches are their own choosing. community memory garden by moving 10 tons of
made at 100% of the underlying donation, up to annual topsoil into raised beds, planting 1,500 daffodil bulbs,
giving caps of $5,000 per employee and $2,500 per This year’s Verisk Volunteer Week—the tenth and removing weeds. As a result of their hard work,
retiree. consecutive year of the event—saw employees the project was completed about four months ahead
around the world join forces for a number of of schedule, and the garden is expected to be in full
Employee gifts supported a wide variety of cultural, meaningful activities. Here are highlights from bloom during the spring of 2024.
educational, humanitarian, medical, and social several countries:
causes, such as: United States
India
More than 360 team members at our Jersey City
• Boston Dialogue Foundation Our colleagues in Hyderabad participated in headquarters packed 40,000 meals for Rise Against
• Dana-Farber Cancer Institute multiple projects, with more than 100 team members Hunger, an organization whose mission is to nourish
contributing 300 hours of service. Among other things, people and communities in need.
• Greater Chicago Food Depository
they sponsored lunch at a local school, serving meals
• Hawaii Community Foundation for approximately 275 students, distributing goodies, Our team members in Bradenton, Florida, teamed up
• Islamic Relief USA and awarding prizes for academic excellence. They with Feeding Tampa Bay to bag, box, and distribute
cleaned, cut, and stored vegetables at a local kitchen 344 meals to food-insecure families living in
• Jane Goodall Institute
that provides meals to children in government-run
Manatee County.
• PBS Foundation schools. They also organized a blood drive.
• Shanti Bhavan Children’s Project
Nepal
• St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital
Our colleagues in Kathmandu volunteered at a school
• Tuesday’s Children
for children with special needs, where they distributed
• UNICEF meals and connected with the students and their
teachers.
• World Central Kitchen
Poland
In Krakow, our colleagues helped local families in need
by donating the proceeds of two events: A fundraiser
where team members auctioned goods and services
and a bake sale organized by the Women’s Network.
They volunteered at an animal shelter where they
helped clean the facility, tended to the greenery, and
31 / ©Verisk / verisk.com
2023 CSR Report Charitable Giving Table of Contents
Recognizing Our Exceptional Volunteers Here are Verisk’s 2023 recipients: • Safe Families for Children
(Central Indiana Chapter)
Each year, Verisk selects 25 or more employees who $1,000 Hannah Barnhart
volunteer in their communities and whose service— • Sustainable Food Center
measured in terms of time, tenure, or impact—is Jess Gaffney
• Asheville Area Habitat for Humanity
exceptional. Verisk recognizes their efforts by
Miriam Lowenfield-Jayne • The Switch
making donations in their name, up to $1,000,
Shani Clarke and
to the organizations they serve. • Asociación Ministerio Casa de Paz
Harry Norton-Steele
Laura Romero
This year’s class of honorees includes an employee • Clear Path for Veterans New England • Whispering Pines Volunteer Fire Department
who volunteers as a civics and citizenship instructor Michael Simonian Robert Holso
for refugees coming to the United States; another who
• ConfiKids
founded a not-for-profit focused on violence prevention $500
Kristin Papianou
following the senseless murder of her nephew; multiple
• Eli’s Garden of Healing
employees who serve as volunteer firefighters or
Crystal Cathcart • 4th Bramshill Scout Group
emergency medical technicians (EMTs) in their
Steve Cossu
communities, including one who assists healthcare • Faithful Servant Missions
professionals providing pro bono medical services to John Chitty • AlmaGea ODV
the homeless population of Krakow, Poland; and others Sara Wejdenstolpe
• Grace’s Kitchen
who lend their minds, hands, and hearts to a variety of Andrew Hughes • HindiUSA
programs that help children, protect animals, feed the Hemant Chowdhary
• Hanover Township Volunteer Fire Company
hungry, build or rehabilitate homes, promote financial
Steve Kandianis • Knights of Columbus - Mother Seton Council #5427
literacy, support veterans, and more.
Michael Fusco
• Hearts & Bones Rescue
Photo credit: Asheville Area Habitat for Humanity Erin Hunkemoeller • Laurel House
• Hoboken Volunteer Ambulance Corps Kevin Broomall
Lachlan Mountjoy • Leap201
• International Rescue Committee Kim Yan Lim
Mara Kellogg • Navajeevanam Multipurpose
• Literacy Together Social Service Society
Lindsay Hussey Jeevan Rapolu
• Mifflinburg Hose Company • New York African Chorus Ensemble
William Bekanich Josanna McCaskill
• Missions Ministries • Rotten Rottie Rescue
John Trovinger Robert Harrell
• Fundacja Przystań Medyczna • Southwark Refugee Communities Forum
Adam Czepielik Jonathan Clarke
32 / ©Verisk / verisk.com
Governance
“Our commitment to responsibility encompasses the
workplace and the marketplace. Our responsibility for
meeting the commitment is borne by every employee,
including our senior executives.”
– Kathlyn Card Beckles, Chief Legal Officer
2023 CSR Report Governance Table of Contents
Led by our Board of Directors, Verisk Supplements Conflict of Enterprise Risk Management, Global Protection
Interest Policy with Disclosures Services, Human Resources, Law, Privacy, and Security
Verisk reinforced its commitment
departments, meets at least quarterly and more often
Required of Senior Staff
to sound governance through as may be necessary. The anonymity associated with
the whistleblower process is safeguarded during
strengthened risk oversight, As noted in Verisk’s Code of Business Conduct and
such reviews.
Ethics, a “conflict of interest” occurs when a person’s
new policies, mandatory training
private interest interferes, or even appears to interfere,
initiatives, and transparency. in any way with the interests of the Company, From Policy to Practice: Verisk Conducts
including its subsidiaries and affiliates. Its First Human Rights Risk Assessment
Board Takes Steps to Strengthen An extensive Conflict of Interest description, including At its December 2022 meeting, Verisk’s Human Rights
Operational Oversight, Continue examples, is included among the Employee Covenants Committee authorized a desktop risk assessment
each employee must acknowledge annually. Taking aimed at identifying potential areas of human rights
“Say-on-Pay” Votes
the obligation one step further, Verisk implemented a risk in the Company’s operations and supply chain. It
Conflict of Interest Disclosure during 2023, which was was intended that the initial exercise would be followed
The Audit Committee of Verisk’s Board of
administered to nearly 1,000 employees categorized by a discussion about the magnitude and materiality of
Directors has strengthened its risk oversight
as senior-level staff. All potential conflicts were any such exposure and what, if anything, Verisk should
processes with management by adopting a risk
reviewed and investigated, and action was taken as do to monitor, mitigate, or avoid the risk going forward.
dashboard and risk review calendar that requires
necessary to mitigate the actual or potential conflict
in-depth assessments of six risk categories at
of interest that was reported. The risk assessment was subsequently conducted
various Committee meetings throughout the year.
by Verisk Maplecroft, a Verisk business that has
The six categories are: Technology and Cyber,
Verisk Takes Steps to Ensure Proper deep expertise in human rights and social risk and
Economic/Financial, Legal and Regulatory, Societal/
an industry-leading data set encompassing 31 global
Talent, Environmental, and Geopolitical. These and Investigation, Resolution of Complaints
indices covering the entire range of civil, political, and
other risk assessment and risk management Made Through Whistleblower Hotline
labor rights. The combination of Verisk Maplecroft
activities are expected to be consolidated in a
indices, known spend by country, and the size of the
newly formed Risk Committee of the Board,
Verisk’s Whistleblower Hotline is managed associated workforce suggested that, on a relative
which will be appointed in 2024.
independently of Verisk, operates at all hours basis, human rights risk appears to be greatest
every day of the year, is open to anyone, is accessible when associated with operations in three countries.
At the 2023 annual shareholders meeting, online or by phone, and is available in 23 languages.
management recommended, and shareholders
Although none of the findings suggest a material risk,
overwhelmingly approved, a proposal to continue
During 2023, the Company added a level of oversight the Human Rights Committee adopted a number of
the Company’s practice of holding annual “say-on-
to the process by appointing a committee to review actions to strengthen risk mitigation strategies, insofar
pay” votes on executive compensation.
the reported concerns, and their investigation and as such strategies govern the hiring and onboarding
resolution, and to identify any systemic risks or of employees and the credentialing of suppliers and
Verisk’s Board currently consists of ten directors, trends that should be mitigated. The committee, which business partners.
nine of whom are independent. Six of the ten includes representatives from Verisk’s Compliance,
represent diverse categories.
34 / ©Verisk / verisk.com
2023 CSR Report Governance Table of Contents
Verisk’s Human Rights Committee consists of Verisk’s affect employees around the world. The Policy also contracts with a leading risk and compliance
CEO and the senior leaders representing the following encourages employees to be active partners in this organization to determine whether any Tier 1 suppliers
functions: Compliance, Enterprise Risk, Human process by acknowledging a duty to act responsibly are subject to sanctions. The organization also scans
Resources, Law, Procurement, and Sustainability. in terms of protecting themselves and others. content daily from news sources in approximately 200
countries, triggering risk alerts when suppliers may
Verisk Adopts an Employee Health An Employee Health and Safety Committee has have been implicated in possible violations of laws or
been appointed to oversee the implementation and regulations, including those involving modern slavery
and Safety Policy
operation of this Policy, including the associated or other human rights abuses.
communication of the Policy to employees, the
Verisk has adopted an Employee Health and Safety
resolution of alleged violations and grievances During “Commitments Month,”
Policy, which describes the Company’s commitment
related to this Policy, and periodic reports to
to promoting the welfare of its workforce beyond the Verisk Employees and Contractors
Verisk’s Board of Directors.
statutory and regulatory requirements promulgated Complete Mandatory Training Programs to
by the jurisdictions where the Company operates.
Promote Risk Awareness and Avoidance
2023 Statement on Modern Slavery
The Policy addresses Verisk’s approach to Highlights Employee Training,
During an early spring period known as
promoting the physical and mental well-being of Supplier Monitoring
“Commitments Month” (formerly known as
employees by describing the range of services and
Commitments Week), nearly 7,000 employees
benefits the Company offers, including various Verisk’s Statement on Modern Slavery and 700 contractors completed an extensive
programs supporting employee health, wellness, summarizes the steps taken by the Company to curriculum of mandatory training programs
work-life balance, and emergency needs, among educate employees and contingent workers about to promote risk awareness and avoidance.
others. The Policy also describes the Company’s the risk of modern slavery and human trafficking
commitments regarding building safety, workplace and describes how Verisk monitors Tier 1 suppliers Courses are role- and location-specific and offered
safety, job safety, and safety associated with the for potential violations. in multiple languages. The requirements are applicable
operation of vehicles in Verisk’s automobile fleet.
at all levels of the Company, up to and including
In some cases, the Policy consolidates commitments
The Statement, which is signed by Verisk’s chief Verisk’s chief executive officer and senior business
made in existing Company policies and procedures
executive officer and approved by the Board of leaders.
governing individual aspects of workplace
Directors, has been published annually since 2017.
expectations and behavior.
Among employees and
As noted in the Statement, all workforce members,
Verisk’s Human Resources Department is responsible including contingent workers, are required to annually contractors working at year-end,
for addressing employee needs related to health and
acknowledge that they have read Verisk’s Human
approximately 99% had satisfied
well-being. Verisk’s Global Protection Services team,
Rights Policy and complete an online, interactive
which takes an all-hazards approach to safety and modern slavery training program as part of the their training requirements.
security, is responsible for providing Verisk’s
Company’s mandatory annual training curriculum.
immediate response to incidents that potentially
The Statement also describes how the Company
35 / ©Verisk / verisk.com
2023 CSR Report Governance Table of Contents
Commitments Month – March 15 - April 15, 2023
Course Name Language Scope
Compliance, Privacy, and Information Security
Anti-Bribery & Corruption English, German, French Canadian, Chinese, Spanish, Italian, Polish All required
Ethical Workplace Conduct and Respectful Communication English, German, French Canadian, Chinese, Spanish, Italian, Polish All required
Data Governance English, German, French Canadian, Chinese, Spanish, Italian, Polish All required
Data Privacy English, German, French Canadian, Chinese, Spanish, Italian, Polish All required
General Compliance English, German, French Canadian, Chinese, Spanish, Italian, Polish All required
Security Awareness English, German, French Canadian, Chinese, Spanish, Italian, Polish All required
Insider Trading English, German, French Canadian, Chinese, Spanish, Italian, Polish All required
Intellectual Property English, German, French Canadian, Chinese, Spanish, Italian, Polish All required
Modern Slavery English, German, French Canadian, Chinese, Spanish, Italian, Polish All required
Antitrust & Competition English, German, French Canadian, Chinese, Spanish, Italian, Polish All required
Compliance, Privacy Role-Based
Health Information Portability & Accountability Act (HIPAA) English Specific individuals
Unfair Deceptive and Abusive Acts or Practices (UDAAP) English Specific individuals
Fair Credit Reporting Act English Specific individuals
Active Shooter: Awareness and Preparedness English All U.S. employees and contractors
Inclusion and Diversity
LGBTQ+ English, German, French Canadian, Chinese, Spanish, Italian, Polish All required
Workplace Diversity/Racism in the Workplace English, German, French Canadian, Chinese, Spanish, Italian, Polish All required
Bias in Hiring [people managers only] English, German, French Canadian, Chinese, Spanish, Italian, Polish Specific individuals
Anti-Harassment & Discrimination
Anti-Harassment & Discrimination Global Employee English, German, French Canadian, Chinese, Spanish, Italian, Polish All as specified
Anti-Harassment & Discrimination Global Manager English, German, French Canadian, Chinese, Spanish, Italian, Polish All as specified
Anti-Harassment & Discrimination Canada Employee English, French Canadian All as specified
Anti-Harassment & Discrimination Canada Managers English, French Canadian All as specified
Anti-Harassment & Discrimination Germany Employee English, German All as specified
Anti-Harassment & Discrimination Germany Managers English, German All as specified
12 State/Country specific Anti-Harassment & Discrimination courses English All as specified
for Employee
12 State/Country specific Anti-Harassment & Discrimination courses English All as specified
for Managers
36 / ©Verisk / verisk.com
2023 CSR Report Governance Table of Contents
In addition to the Commitments Month training, all Verisk employees and contractors are required 2023 SASB Report and 2022 EEO-1 Report
to provide written acknowledgment of key policies, such as the Company’s Global Privacy Policy and
Human Rights Policy. Employees are also required to acknowledge a series of covenants such as For the fourth consecutive year, Verisk has published
Verisk’s Zero Tolerance for Harassment. a report in accordance with the Sustainability
Accounting Standards Board (SASB) disclosure
framework for professional and commercial services
Anti-Bribery & Corruption English, German, French Canadian, Chinese, companies. The framework helps companies identify
All required
Policy Acknowledgement Spanish, Italian, Polish and report on the sustainability-related risks and
opportunities that the SASB deems to be most
relevant to the financial performance of companies in
Clean Desk Policy English, German, French Canadian, Chinese, the sector. Verisk’s 2023 SASB Report is attached as
All required
Acknowledgement Spanish, Italian, Polish Appendix A.
Verisk has also disclosed its U.S. Equal Employment
Verisk Data Principles English, German, French Canadian, Chinese, Opportunity Commission (EEOC) 2022 Employer
All required
Policy Acknowledgement Spanish, Italian, Polish Information Report (EEO-1 Component 1), which
provides workforce demographic data about
the Company’s U.S. workforce. The report is available
Employee Covenants English, German, French Canadian, Chinese, in Verisk’s ESG Resource Library located here.
Employees only
Acknowledgement Spanish, Italian, Polish
Visit Verisk’s ESG Resource Library
Failure to Prevent the to find information about Verisk’s
English, German, French Canadian, Chinese,
Facilitation of Tax Evasion All required
Policy Acknowledgement Spanish, Italian, Polish policies, governance documents,
and annual financial and
Global Privacy Policy English, German, French Canadian, Chinese, sustainability reports.
All required
Acknowledgement Spanish, Italian, Polish
Human Rights Policy English, German, French Canadian, Chinese,
All required
Acknowledgement Spanish, Italian, Polish
Workforce Information Handling English, German, French Canadian, Chinese,
All required
Policy Acknowledgement Spanish, Italian, Polish
37 / ©Verisk / verisk.com
Appendix A
SASB Report
2023 CSR Report Appendix A Table of Contents
Appendix A
2023 SASB Disclosure
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB)
Professional & Commercial Services
About this Report For more information on Verisk’s Corporate Social Responsibility program, please visit our CSR website.
To access Verisk’s policies, governance documents, and annual financial and sustainability reports, please visit our
The information presented in this report follows
ESG Resource Library.
guidance from the SASB Industry Standard: Professional
& Commercial Services. The report covers the period
from January 1 to December 31, 2023, for Verisk
Analytics and its companies, unless otherwise noted.
Data Security
About Verisk
SASB code and accounting metric Response
Verisk (Nasdaq: VRSK) is a leading data, analytics, and
technology provider serving clients in the insurance SV-PS-230a.1 Verisk’s Approach to Cybersecurity describes our approach
ecosystem. Using advanced technologies to collect and Description of approach to identifying to identifying and addressing data security risks.
analyze billions of records, we draw on unique data and addressing data security risks
assets, insurance industry knowledge, and technological
expertise to provide valuable solutions that are SV-PS-230a.2 Verisk’s Approach to Cybersecurity and its privacy notices describes
integrated into client workflows. We offer predictive Description of policies and practices our policies and practices relating to the collection, usage, and retention
analytics and decision support solutions to clients in relating to collection, usage, and of customer information.
rating, underwriting, claims, catastrophe, weather risk,
retention of customer information
and many other fields. In the United States and around
the world, we help clients protect individuals,
communities, and businesses. With teams across more SV-PS-230a.3 Verisk complies with legal, regulatory, and applicable industry requirements
than 20 countries, Verisk consistently earns the Great (1) Number of data breaches, involving customers’ confidential business information, personal data breaches,
Place to Work® Certified™ company designation and (2) percentage that (a) involve customers’ and the number of customers and individuals affected. Except as a matter of
fosters an inclusive culture where all team members feel confidential business information and (b) are public record, Verisk does not disclose this information.
they belong. personal data breaches,
(3) number of (a) customers and (b)
For more information, visit Verisk.com and the Verisk individuals affected
Newsroom.
39 / ©Verisk / verisk.com
2023 CSR Report Appendix A Table of Contents
Workforce Diversity and Engagement
SASB code and accounting metric Response
SV-PS-330a.1
Percentage of (1) gender and
(2) diversity group representation
for (a) executive management,
(b) non-executive management,
and (c) all other employees
1 Charts include full-time, part-time, and temporary workers only.
2 The percents exclude “Not Specified” since there is no information in the system for these employees.
Definitions
• Executive Management: As per the SASB definition, strictly up to two levels under the CEO (including individual contributors and excluding executive
administrative assistants)
• Non-executive Management: All other management levels (including individual contributors and excluding Executive Management)
• Other Employees: All others, excluding Executive Management and Non-executive Management
Verisk’s commitment to achieving an inclusive and engaged workforce is supported by the following:
• The responsibilities and action plans outlined in our Statement on Racial Equity and Diversity
• Diversity and Inclusion Policy
• A Zero Tolerance for Harassment Policy
• Competitive salary and benefits, paid time off, flexible work schedules and telecommuting options,
along with access to and financial support for professional development and education
• Support for nine Verisk Employee Networks, including the Accessibility Network, Asian Network, Indigenous Network,
Parents Network, Pride Network, REACH Network, Unidos Network, Valor Network, and Women’s Network
• An annual Employee Engagement Survey
For more information, please visit Verisk’s annual Corporate Social Responsibility Report and Our People and Our Culture pages on our CSR website.
40 / ©Verisk / verisk.com
2023 CSR Report Appendix A Table of Contents
For more information about our employee engagement and our certifications from Great Place to Work, please see p. 22 in our 2023 CSR Report.
Professional Integrity
SASB code and accounting metric Response
SV-PS-510a.1 Verisk sets a high and uniform standard of fair and ethical behavior for its management, employees, and suppliers.
Description of approach to ensuring The following policies and documents outline these standards:
professional integrity
• Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy • Supplier Code of Conduct and credentialing process
• Code of Business Conduct and Ethics • Whistleblower Policy
• Statement of Policy Concerning Trading Policies • Human Rights Policy
• Statement on Modern Slavery
Verisk employees acknowledge covenants covering various topics, including insider trading and tipping, conflicts of interest,
an obligation of confidentiality, and computer and information security.
Verisk also supports our commitment to business integrity with mandatory training for our employees across a wide range of topics.
SV-PS-510a.2 In accordance with Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) requirements, Verisk discloses all material legal proceedings in its annual reports
Total amount of monetary losses on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q filed with the SEC. See our SEC Filings page for additional information.
as a result of legal proceedings
associated with professional integrity
41 / ©Verisk / verisk.com
2023 CSR Report Appendix A Table of Contents
Activity Metrics
42 / ©Verisk / verisk.com
Corporate
Leadership
2023 CSR Report Corporate Leadership Table of Contents
Corporate Leadership
Lee M. Shavel Nick Daffan Sunita Holzer Maroun S. Mourad
President and Chief Information Chief Human President, Claims
Chief Executive Officer Relations Officer Solutions
Officer
Stacey Brodbar Dianne Green Saurabh Khemka
Rob Newbold
Head of Investor Head of Diversity and Co-President,
President,
Relations Inclusion Underwriting
Extreme Event
Solutions
Solutions
Doug Caccese David J. Grover Elizabeth Mann Tim Rayner
Co-President, Controller, Chief Chief Financial President,
Underwriting Accounting Officer Officer Specialty Business
Solutions Solutions
Kathlyn Card Beckles Melissa Hendricks Patrick McLaughlin Samantha Vaughan
Chief Legal Chief Marketing Chief Sustainability Chief Privacy Officer
Officer Officer Officer
Yang Chen
Head of Corporate
Development and
Strategy
44 / ©Verisk / verisk.com
2023 CSR Report Corporate Leadership Table of Contents
Board of Directors
Bruce Hansen Independent Chair Wendy Lane Kimberly S. Stevenson
Retired Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Experienced Board Director, Insurance Retired Executive, Technology and
ID Analytics and Global Information Services Industries Global Information Services Industries
Executive Committee Finance and Investment Committee; Talent Management and Executive Committee; Governance, Corporate Sustainability
Compensation Committee and Nominating Committee; Risk Committee (Chair);
Talent Management and Compensation Committee
Vincent Brooks
Samuel G. Liss
Retired Four-Star General, U.S. Army Therese M. Vaughan
Principal, WhiteGate Partners LLC
Governance, Corporate Sustainability, and Nominating Retired Chief Executive Officer,
Committee; Risk Committee; Talent Management and Audit Committee; Finance and Investment Committee
Compensation Committee National Association of Insurance Commissioners
Lee M. Shavel Audit Committee; Executive Committee; Governance,
Jeffrey Dailey Corporate Sustainability, and Nominating Committee (Chair)
Chief Executive Officer, Verisk Analytics
Retired Chief Executive Officer, Farmers Group, Inc
Executive Committee; Finance and Investment Committee; Olumide Soroye
Talent Management and Compensation Committee (Chair)
President and Chief Executive Officer,
Intelligent Operating Solutions, Fortive Corporation
Kathleen A. Hogenson
Audit Committee; Executive Committee; Finance and
President and Chief Executive Officer,
Investment Committee (Chair); Risk Committee
Zone Oil & Gas, LLC
Audit Committee (Chair); Executive Committee; Governance,
Corporate Sustainability and Nominating Committee;
Risk Committee
45 / ©Verisk / verisk.com
© 2024 Verisk Analytics, Inc. Verisk Analytics, the Verisk Analytics logo, BCEGS, Mozart, Mozart Form Composer,
and PPC are registered trademarks and Verisk and the Verisk logo are trademarks of Insurance Service Offices,
Inc. Touchstone is a registered trademark and ALERT is a trademark of AIR Worldwide Corporation. Xactimate
is a registered trademark of Xactware Solutions, Inc. All other product or corporate names are trademarks or
registered trademarks of their respective companies. z230062 (4/24).
