2021 Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 2
Our Mission
At VIATRISTM, we see healthcare not as it is, but as it
should be. We act courageously and are uniquely
positioned to be a source of stability in a world of
evolving healthcare needs.
Viatris empowers people worldwide to live
healthier at every stage of life.
We do so via:
Access
Providing high-quality trusted medicines,
regardless of geography or circumstance
Leadership
Advancing sustainable operations and
innovative solutions to improve patient health
Partnership
Leveraging our collective expertise to connect
people to products and services
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 3
Table of Contents
Management Disclosure
Introduction Making a Difference Appendix
and Performance Data
Viatris at a Glance .......................................4 COVID-19.....................................................12 Introduction................................................47 Products on the WHO
Prequalification List....................................78
About this Report .......................................5 Access and Global Health........................17 Access and Global Health........................49
Global Manufacturing Network...............79
Letter from Our CEO .................................6 Employees...................................................26 Employees...................................................61
Collaborations for Access.........................80
Advancing Our Commitments Environment...............................................34 Environment, Health and Safety............65
to Sustainability ...........................................7 GRI Content Index......................................82
Community.................................................41 CSR Oversight and Compliance.............71
Our Model for Sustainable SASB Table...................................................89
Access to Medicine .....................................9
TCFD Table...................................................92
This i-icon throughout this report indicates there is additional information for a topic in the Management Disclosure and Performance Data section. This section provides a comprehensive
description of Viatris’ management, governance and organization of important environmental, social and governance (ESG) matters, as well as performance data.
22002211 VViiaattrriiss SSuussttaaiinnaabbiilliittyy RReeppoorrtt
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 4
Viatris at a Glance 2021
>80 Billion >165 >1,400 ~100 >400
across access countries reached3 biosimilar
doses sold countries and territories approved molecules Based on the Access to Medicine marketing authorization
Foundation’s list of countries approvals globally
Japan, Australia and
Emerging Markets Developed Markets Greater China
New Zealand (JANZ)
Products in development 70 210 65 30
by region1
Products pending
1,050 530 10 15
approval by region2
2021 CDP Scores
~500 Million ~37,000 70+ ~3,000
across
B
Water security
doses of medicine donated colleagues countries R&D, regulatory, clinical
B–
and medical experts Climate change
Partnerships4 Awards and Recognitions
Business partnerships, memberships and philanthropic collaborations help us reach patients and communities worldwide.
Related Sources
1Numbers have been rounded, Unique Molecule + form in Commercial segment 3The Access to Medicine Foundation All information presented as of December 31, 2021, unless otherwise noted.
2Numbers have been rounded, Molecule + Form + Country 4 Expanded list of partners on pages 80-81
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 5
About this
Report
This is the second annual sustainability report for Viatris, which was formed in November We are committed to annual reporting on important sustainability matters and are working to
2020. This report presents work and progress across key topics in 2021, a year shaped by our further enhance our disclosure. This report is prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards:
efforts to integrate two legacy organizations into one global healthcare company dedicated to Core level, references the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) standards for
sustainable access to medicine. Biotechnology & Pharmaceuticals and provides disclosure in accordance with the Task Force
on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). Viatris is a signatory to the United Nations
Sustainability is fundamental to the Viatris mission. We work to advance responsible and Global Compact (UNGC) and is committed to the Compact’s 10 principles related to human
sustainable operations and leverage our collective expertise to empower people worldwide rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption.
to live healthier at every stage of life, recognizing that our actions affect the stakeholders
and communities we serve. Certain subsidiaries are also subject to statutory sustainability reporting in the EU, following
the EU Non-Financial Reporting Directive (EU NFRD). This report, together with Viatris’ statutory
Through this publication, we describe our holistic actions and initiatives across multiple areas filings, is intended to fulfill our applicable reporting requirements. Information contained in
of focus supporting our efforts to be a model for sustainable access to medicine and to make this report reflects work and progress from Jan. 1, 2021 to Dec. 31, 2021, unless otherwise
a difference. In addition to describing work and progress during the calendar year 2021, the noted. Reporting on other matters specific to financial performance of Viatris Inc. and our
report also includes some updates from early 2022. The report contains three main sections: subsidiaries can be found in our periodic reports and filings with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, including the Company’s most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K
1. Introduction to Viatris on Feb. 28, 2022, as amended by the Form 10-K/A filed on April 29, 2022.
2. Areas where we strive to make a difference
Not all of the products mentioned in this report have been approved for use in all countries
3. Management disclosure and performance data where Viatris has a commercial presence. The information contained in this report is not for
use in product detailing or promotion.
More information on Viatris’ work, policies and management processes is also available at
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report Viatris.com.
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 6
Delivering on Our Vision
A Message from Our CEO
Our colleagues around the world truly These examples highlight the impact of our organization and reduce risk. In short, we are
exemplified the power that lies in collaboration, Global Healthcare Gateway®, which opens working to make Viatris a simpler, stronger
focus and resilience during our first full our vast infrastructure to partners so we can and more focused company. In doing so,
year as Viatris. Despite the challenges of collectively make a difference by broadening we are positioning ourselves to develop
the ongoing pandemic, especially to the healthcare access. more complex and novel products,
global supply chain, we remained agile and providing greater opportunities to target
committed to delivering medicines to patients As a signatory to the UN Global Compact gaps in patient care.
with little to no disruptions and protecting the (UNGC), we believe companies can be a force
safety, health and well-being of our colleagues. for good, and it is essential that we work to As I write this letter, I am also mindful of the
be enablers of potential solutions to some crisis in Ukraine and the millions of people
Access is at the heart of our mission, and of society’s most pressing challenges. As affected by conflicts around the world. We are
we marked several significant milestones part of advancing our commitments and working to support our employees and their
in 2021 in expanding access to more work in 2021, we endorsed the Women’s families as well as the communities impacted
affordable treatments. Together with our Empowerment Principles and signed on to while continuing to do all we can to supply “Viatris was launched with a clear focus
partner Atomo Diagnostics, we announced the UNGC CEO Water Mandate. To further essential medicines to patients in need. on expanding access and ensuring a
a multi-year agreement with global health progress our work, we have set company- continued, reliable supply of medicine
agency Unitaid to expand access to HIV self- wide goals in the areas of patient access, With all that the world continues to face, to patients in need. Even in the midst of
testing in low- and middle-income countries the environment, and diversity, equity and making a difference as a company can the pandemic, the company was able to
(LMICs). Together with our partner Biocon inclusion (DE&I). These goals are just a few come in many forms. Whether it has been achieve this mission, while also meeting
its financial commitments, progressing
Biologics, we announced the launch of the examples of the work going on at every level supporting our own colleagues, managing
on integration activities and advancing
first interchangeable biosimilar in the U.S., of our organization to make a difference. partnerships to ensure a consistent supply
efforts across key ESG topics. The Board of
SEMGLEE® (insulin glargine-yfgn) Injection You can read more details about these goals of medicine for patients or setting goals
Directors recognizes the achievements of
and Insulin Glargine (insulin glargine-yfgn) throughout this report. that position us for a brighter future, I am
our outstanding global workforce in these
Injection, which provides more affordable proud of all that we have accomplished
areas during our first full year as Viatris and
options for the millions of Americans living We also used 2021 to establish a solid during our first year. And our story is just continues to work closely and strategically
with diabetes. We also received tentative FDA foundation for our future as a long-term beginning. We hope you will continue to with management to create a company
approval, and full approval in 2022, for the partner in sustainable access to medicine. follow along in our journey. that is well positioned for long-term
first generic version of Symbicort® for the That work included a comprehensive strategic success and to empower people worldwide
treatment of asthma and chronic obstructive review to identify opportunities where we can to live healthier at every stage of life.”
pulmonary disease (COPD) in partnership add value, remove inefficiencies, simplify the
— Robert J. Coury
with Kindeva. Michael Goettler, CEO Executive Chairman, Viatris
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 7
Advancing Our Commitments to Sustainability
Our world continues to face many challenges, including the continuing impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, growing disparities in access to healthcare,
increasing effects of climate change, and most recently, the crisis in Ukraine. At the same time, stakeholders continue to expect companies to take
appropriate steps to address these complex issues and mitigate risks where aspects of their businesses are implicated. Guided by our mission, we set
out in 2021 in our first full year as Viatris to distinguish ourselves as a valued partner eager to roll up our collective sleeves and help where possible.
Our commitment to access to medicine and supporting resilient healthcare systems by advancing sustainable and responsible operations truly is
a collective mission, realized through the dedication of colleagues across the organization. We are honored to have been recognized last year for our efforts
on Fortune’s Change the World list, Newsweek’s America’s Most Responsible Companies list and Forbes’ World’s Best Employers list. These achievements
acknowledge not only the amazing and meaningful work by our teams around the world but also our continuing commitment to act responsibly.
2021 was a year in which we expanded our commitments to sustainability. As part of furthering our commitment to the UNGC and supporting progress
on the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), we became signatories to the UNGC CEO Water Mandate and Women’s Empowerment Principles. We
also did the important groundwork required to establish and prioritize initial company-wide and multi-year goals. That work involved internal experts “Global health disparities have
from multiple functions working in collaboration with external partners. always been a great concern, but
the continuing COVID-19 pandemic
In the pages that follow, you’ll learn more about these goals, our holistic approach to sustainability and efforts to make a difference. We look forward to has further highlighted the urgency
sharing with you the strong foundation we have built, the progress we have made in our first year and our constant commitment to acting responsibly of issues such as growing divides
as we continue our mission of supporting sustainable access to medicine for patients around the world, regardless of geography or circumstance. based on patients’ geography
and circumstance. Further, the
— Lara Ramsburg battle against antimicrobial
Head of Corporate Affairs resistance, climate change and
other environmental concerns
are becoming increasingly urgent.
UN Sustainable Development Goals Most Relevant to Viatris Partnerships are key for informed
solutions and lasting impact, and
We are well positioned to support progress towards Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 3 — To Ensure Healthy Lives and Promote Well-Being
we are committed to continuing to
for All at All Ages. We have the scientific, manufacturing and distribution capabilities, deep expertise, and a wide-ranging commercial platform that
grow our leadership in these areas.”
extends to more than 165 countries and territories. As a global healthcare company, how we conduct ourselves and interact with our partners
impacts that and other goals.
— Lina Andersson
We intend to apply and leverage our unique capabilities, manage inherent risks, and be a reliable partner as the world builds back from the pandemic Head of CSR Development and
and seeks to accelerate progress towards 2030. Operations
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 8
Our Initial Sustainability Goals
ACCESS DE&I ENVIRONMENT
• Provide antiretroviral (ARV) therapy equivalent to a • Engage at least 90% of employees globally on • Reduce absolute Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas
total of 30 million patients, including more than 2 diversity, equity and inclusion learning by the end (GHG) emissions 42% by 20301 and reduce Scope
million children living with HIV/AIDS, between 2022 of 2023. 3 GHG emissions covering purchase goods and
and the end of 2025. services, capital goods, fuel and energy related
• Increase diversity in management:
alternatives and upstream transportation and
• Impact 100 million patients via healthcare professional
Increase Women’s representation in senior distribution 25% by 2030.1 These near-term targets
(HCP) education and outreach regarding prevention,
management globally to at least 35% by the end have been submitted to the Science Based Targets
diagnosis and treatment options for cardiovascular
of 2027. initiative (SBTi) for review and validation.
disease, diabetes, cancer and other important chronic
conditions to improve outcomes through the NCD At least double Black representation in all • Perform water risk assessments for all locations in
Academy by the end of 2025. management levels in the U.S. by the end of 2027. high or extremely-high water risk areas as identified
At least double Hispanic/Latinx representation in by the World Resource Institute and identify
senior management in the U.S. by the end of 2027. appropriate water conservation initiatives by 2025.
• Achieve a 50% increase in the number of zero
landfill locations by 2030.1
These priority areas and initial goals support our sustained operations and relevance, our contribution to advancing global sustainable development goals for 2030, and help us proactively
address evolving expectations from stakeholders. To achieve these objectives, diligent work must happen in both the short and the long-term, touching all of us at Viatris.
Sources 12020 as baseline
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 9
Our Model for Sustainable Access to Medicine
Viatris provides high-quality, trusted medicines, regardless of geography or circumstance. In 2021, Viatris’ products make their way to patients through a variety of intermediaries, or
we sold more than 80 billion doses, serving patients in more than 165 countries and territories, channels: pharmaceutical wholesalers/distributors; pharmaceutical retailers; institutional
reaching approximately 90% of low- and lower-middle-income countries. Our portfolio comprises pharmacies; mail-order and e-commerce pharmacies; and specialty pharmacies.
more than 1,400 approved molecules across more than 10 major therapeutic areas and includes
globally recognized iconic and key brands, generics, complex generics and biosimilars. RESHAPING AND BUILDING FOR THE FUTURE
Since the creation of Viatris in 2020, we have worked to leverage our strong foundation and further
“We are a development house with capabilities that
establish ourselves for future success as a long-term partner and sustained value creator for key
will be further strengthened and focused in coming
years, as we continue to move up the value chain. stakeholders. To that end, in 2021 we commenced a significant global restructuring program
Our portfolio and pipeline are diverse across a wide focusing on how Viatris can add further value for patients, healthcare systems and shareholders
range of therapeutic areas, segments and markets. by drawing upon our proven capabilities, increasing efficiency and focus, and reducing risk.
Building off of our success in 2021, including
receiving approval for the first interchangeable
biosimilar in the U.S., we intend to continue to build Our Four Market Segments:
a pipeline focusing on products with complexity to
address treatment gaps and also investing in life- • Developed Markets, which is Europe and North America
cycle amendment of certain key products in • JANZ, which is Japan, Australia and New Zealand
our current portfolio for various regions.”
• Greater China, which is Mainland China, Hong Kong and Taiwan
— R ajiv Malik
• Emerging Markets, which includes our presence in more than 125 countries
President, Viatris
across Asia, Africa, Eastern Europe, Latin America and the Middle East
We have industry-leading commercial, R&D, regulatory, manufacturing, legal and medical expertise,
complemented by a strong commitment to quality and an unparalleled geographic footprint to
deliver high-quality medicines. Our work to expand access, support healthcare systems and global Evolving our Portfolio and Product Development Strategy
health also entails services such as diagnostic clinics, medical research, healthcare professional
Innovation is key to expanding access to medicine. R&D is often assumed to reference only
(HCP) education and digital tools to help patients better manage their health.
the research and development of new, brand-name drugs. However, there are many other
Our deep market expertise in our four market segments lays the foundation for our relevance components of development that are just as critical to providing the world’s population
to patients and partners. Our decision to launch a product in a given country is based on with access to needed medicines.
identifying patient and health system needs while respecting the regulatory, legal and intellectual
We have a strong legacy in developing products with high probability of technical and
property landscape and market and customer dynamics.
regulatory success and a strong track record to be among the first to market difficult-to-make
generic versions of drugs.
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 10
We have expertise across multiple dosage forms and engage in strategic development We believe that Viatris’ early vision and continued commitment provides one of the deepest
partnerships that can complement and enhance our organic capability and capacity — to help complex product pipelines in the industry and that we are well positioned to capitalize on
enhance development timelines, broaden our portfolio and technical capabilities and share risks, these growth opportunities in the future, to the benefit of patients, shareholders and other
cost and commercial success. stakeholders. Our confidence in the future delivery of our pipeline is rooted in our strong
historic development programs.
While we will continue to diligently pursue important generics opportunities, we will increasingly
focus on complex and novel products targeting gaps in care, all with a first-to-market emphasis
and serving our mission of patient access. Complex products categories are critical to patient Viatris has what is needed to deliver complex Gx and Novel products
health and are growing at a rapid pace.
Robust Science, Strong Clinical Proven Broad & Scalable
YEAR FIRST INDUSTRY
BRAND VIATRIS APPROVED APPROVAL Pre-Clinical & Development & Medical Regulatory, Legal Manufacturing
Device Engineering Affairs Across Multiple & Intellectual Capability
Therapeutic Areas Property
2017
As we move our portfolio up that value chain, we are focused on making improvements
2017
to existing products and expanding formulations to make them more widely available to
those who may not have previously had access. We also regularly review the products we
2018 currently provide across different markets, which may periodically lead to rationalization.
Throughout this process, we carefully consider the availability of alternatives for patients to
avoid disruption in critical medications.
2018
“2021 was a special and successful year for Viatris.
We delivered on our financial commitments,
2019
realizing approximately $500 million of cost
synergies as well as generating approximately
$700 million in new product revenue.
2020
Looking forward, we will execute on our strategy
to unlock value, further enhancing our financial
2022 flexibility and increase investments into the
business to enable the reshaping of our company.”
Interchangeability — S anjeev Narula
2021
Chief Financial Officer, Viatris
Cyclosporine
2022
Eye Drops
Source What is a 505(b)(2)?
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 11
VIATRIS’ GLOBAL HEALTHCARE GATEWAY Sustainable, Diverse and Differentiated Portfolio
The Global Healthcare Gateway® (Gateway) truly encapsulates the three pillars of
our mission: Access, Leadership and Partnership. To realize the opportunities of the
Gateway, we are enhancing our capital allocation approach to business development Complex Generics
Brands Generics
and Biosimilars
and our organic and inorganic R&D investments through a focused governance
structure to ensure the highest level of strategic decision-making.
Portfolio of globally recognized Broad range of medicines, spanning Including drug-device combinations,
iconic brands both non-communicable and complex injectables and more
The Gateway connects potential partners with Viatris and our network to help them infectious diseases
Global biosimilars franchise with 7
accelerate the possibilities of using their own healthcare assets to reach more patients molecules already on the market
by leveraging our unique global platform, expanding patient access to more affordable
>1,400 Approved Molecules
treatment and more rapid diagnosis.
Products across >10 therapeutic areas, including:
POWERFUL OPERATING PLATFORM
Our vertically integrated platform combines what we believe to be best-in-class
manufacturing and supply chain capabilities. Viatris operates approximately 40 Cardiovascular CNS & Anesthesia Dermatology Diabetes & Metabolism Gastroenterology
manufacturing sites worldwide that produce oral solid doses, injectables, complex
dosage forms and active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) on five different continents.
Our global, flexible and diverse supply chain is designed to mitigate risks of disruption
and ensure supply reliability. Our responsive global network has helped us maintain a
Immunology Infectious Disease Oncology Opthamology Respiratory & Allergy Women’s Healthcare
reliable supply of much-needed medicines throughout the COVID-19 pandemic despite
significant demand volatility.
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 12
Responding to Challenges
of the Ongoing COVID-19
Pandemic
The health and safety of our colleagues and their families, and maintaining business “Our teams did an exceptional job managing the uncertainty of the
operations for the patients who rely on us, were our highest priorities in 2021, as the COVID-19 pandemic to protect the health and safety of our workforce and
pandemic persisted, spreading through new variants around the world. The pandemic has ensure supply continuity for patients. During 2021, we maintained
been called the “inequality virus” as it has hit countries and communities very differently, a global service level of more than 90%. We will remain dedicated to
this commitment as long as the pandemic and global unrest endures.”
and both the direct and indirect impacts vary worldwide. As a global healthcare company, we
both operate in and serve patients in a variety of circumstances, and our teams closely track — Sinead Griffiths
developments so we can respond appropriately. Head of Global Supply Chain, Viatris
We have taken extra precautions to protect site personnel and operations, including
implementing social distancing measures, daily health assessments and split shifts where
feasible. We offer a wide range of benefits and programs that are locally customized to
meet the unique needs of employees, and regularly offer advice and support to those
working from home.
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 13
In addition to supporting our employees, it has been vital that we continue to provide We provided health and safety support for all employees, including team members and their
essential medicines that patients depend on through our reliable business operations. families who contracted the virus. Support included access to on-call doctors 24/7, professional
COVID-19 has led to unprecedented disruptions to international trade and transit, and counseling, quarantine care and advisory services and home isolation kits.
2021 saw continued activity by governments seeking greater supply security. Amid this
For those employees who were hospitalized, we worked to ensure our colleagues and their
challenging backdrop, we upheld high customer service levels via a reliable supply chain
families had access to hospital beds, ventilators, oxygen and medicines. Viatris medical
to serve patients around the world.
personnel also obtained status updates from hospital personnel, typically on a daily basis. We
Thanks to efforts to build our supply chain systems and enhance our visibility into patient provided financial and educational support for the families of colleagues lost to COVID-19.
needs, before the pandemic began, Viatris was well positioned to monitor and respond to
All of these efforts — including our work to ensure business continuity and support employees
the volatility caused by COVID-19. We had established solid processes and systems that
worldwide — were overseen by a core COVID-19 management team.
were essential to enabling us to focus on getting products to patients. Because of strong
relationships with our logistic suppliers and our global and diverse supply chain, we were As in other parts of the world, mental health was also a big part of our employee outreach
able to pinpoint specific low stock levels across the network and prioritize what was most efforts in India. An Employee Wellbeing and Assistance Program (EWAP) was launched in
important on a daily basis. We were able to move product from one region to another, several languages in 2021, providing professional counseling to employees and their families.
chartering our own aircraft when other airlines were grounded and getting medicines to We gave sessions and webinars on positive mental health and provided special health
patients with vital needs. No single country or company can meet the needs of all patients; insurance coverage over and above the standard for employees, spouses and children.
but urgent solutions were identified through multi-stakeholder collaborations, and we
believe with lasting positive impact. “Our ability to help serve patients during the pandemic was
dependent on the amazing efforts of our colleagues who continued
OUR RESPONSE IN INDIA
to work in manufacturing facilities worldwide despite the challenges
posed by COVID-19. Making sure that those colleagues and their
India experienced a significant surge of
families were protected was and continues to be a priority for us.”
COVID-19 in 2021, with hospitals overrun and
patients struggling to gain access to oxygen — Peter McCormick
and life-saving medicines. Across all of our Global Head of Oral Solid Dose and Dermatologics Science &
facilities in India, we offered regular training ~98% Operations, Viatris
and communication to employees about the
pandemic, workplace protective practices and
return-to-workplace safety. We encouraged
employees to get vaccinated, with vaccination
camps organized across our locations for both
of Viatris India employees
employees and their families. In all, about 98%
are vaccinated for
of Viatris India employees are vaccinated,
which is one of the highest vaccination rates COVID-19, more than the
among companies in the country and well national average.
above the national average.
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 14
We also engaged with on-the-ground efforts in support of local communities through our
long-standing corporate social responsibility (CSR) program in India. This included providing
Expanding Access to Remdesivir ventilators to hospitals, establishing vaccination camps, providing COVID-19 self-test kits and
supporting the creation of a modular hospital. Our teams even converted nitrogen generation
We worked closely with the government of India to ensure equitable access of
capabilities at one of our API facilities to produce oxygen for a hospital in Vizag.
medicines across both state and private hospitals across the country. One of those key
medicines was the antiretroviral remdesivir. Viatris teams worked tirelessly to ensure
”During the most challenging time, our teams in India and around
a stable supply of access to remdesivir, under the brand name DESREM™, in India and
the world worked to take care of each other and patients by ensuring
over 24 other licensed markets to more than 1 million people. A few examples follow:
continuity of supply. To be able to accomplish this in the midst of a
• Employing a multifaceted approach to quickly increase production of remdesivir, pandemic shows just how strongly we are driven by our mission.”
Viatris’ Operations team expanded internal facility capacity while simultaneously — R akesh Bamzai
onboarding contract manufacturers to increase production. President - India, Emerging Asia and Access Markets, Viatris
• Commercial and Operations teams worked with multiple vendors to expedite
procurement of raw materials, collaborating with India’s Ministry of External Affairs
to expedite delivery timelines from suppliers located outside of the country.
• The Supply Chain team worked with logistic service providers and airline carriers
Worldwide, we worked through our established partner networks, including Direct Relief and
to ensure smooth and timely shipments to all corners of the country.
Americares, to provide funding for needed equipment and supplies. For those Viatris employees
In addition, we set up a COVID-19 helpline, where Viatris provided information about outside of India who wanted to help, we partnered with the Red Cross to set up an online
the availability of remdesivir to patients and healthcare providers. The team worked portal where colleagues could donate to international COVID-19 relief efforts, which included
around the clock to respond to hundreds of daily requests. a significant focus on not only in India but also countries in need including Brazil. Viatris
matched employee donations.
In May 2021, our partnership with the government in India also gave us visibility into the
growing onset of mucormycosis, a fungal infection that was beginning to occur in patients
who had recovered from COVID-19 and had the potential of evolving into a huge crisis across
the country.
Foreseeing the urgent need of liposomal amphotericin-B to treat the rapidly rising cases,
Viatris leveraged its partnership with Gilead to secure a supply for AmBisome®. Through its
collaboration with Gilead, Viatris was able to supply more than 600,000 vials in the months of
May and June alone.
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 15
FINDING SOLUTIONS THROUGH COLLABORATIONS
The pandemic has amplified inequalities in healthcare systems worldwide, adding increased Understanding the Patient Journey
urgency to build more sustainable systems. Patients in lower-income countries and settings
have been hit especially hard, due to the high risk of exposure to COVID-19, limited vaccination We continued our partnership with Carenity, a global digital community supporting
rates, impacts on access to all other healthcare and the economic crisis that has followed patients and caregivers, to measure the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on people
the pandemic. As part of coming back from the pandemic, we must capture the unique living with noncommunicable diseases (NCDs). The findings from more than 4,800
opportunities for cross-sector collaboration and find innovative solutions that work at local, patients interviewed across seven countries in Europe and the U.S. were published in
regional and global levels for patients and healthcare systems. Against the backdrop of the International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health.2
ongoing efforts to provide the best care possible for today’s patients, governments worldwide
• As many as 50% of patients surveyed with NCDs like cardiovascular diseases,
are considering how best to prevent future pandemics, while also preparing to respond to the
mental health conditions, cancers, chronic respiratory diseases and diabetes
inevitability that COVID-19 will not be the last major health crisis the world faces together.
experienced a worsening of their condition because of disruptions to prevention
and treatment services caused by the pandemic
• 17% of respondents developed a new disease
In 2022, the Medicines Patent Pool announced that Viatris was one of the companies that
had signed licensing agreements with originator companies to produce their COVID-19 • 26% reported the pandemic impacted regular/long-term treatment intake
medicines and supply treatments in more than 90 low- and middle-income countries.1
• 54% of the patients felt very or completely socially isolated and reported a strong
impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on their stress level and state of mind, with
higher levels observed in the U.S. compared to Europe
Whether ensuring smooth cross-border flows of medicines, convening new cross-sector groups to
nimbly tackle demand surges of critical medicines, or lending expertise in the development of policies • 59% of the respondents wished to have received additional information regarding
impacting supply, Viatris has been an active partner to governments around the world in finding the risks associated with their medical condition during the pandemic
solutions that put patients first. In 2021, those efforts included, among many others:
• Witnessing the surge in demand for intensive care medicines, we partnered with
Medicines for Europe on a project to assess the need and increase the supply from
manufacturers accordingly. The project was endorsed by the European Commission,
providing a targeted solution to demand surges during multiple pandemic waves.
• In Australia, Viatris participated in a government/industry advisory panel to the Minister
for Health on policy reforms needed to ensure ongoing supply of medicines to patients,
such as capping dispensed amounts on individual prescriptions.
• In Japan, we provided, at no cost, 10,000 units of the emergency supportive anaphylaxis
treatment drug EpiPen® to more than 1,700 local governments in charge of COVID-19 vaccination
programs for use in the event of post-vaccination anaphylaxis. Further, we led educational
webinars with more than 20,000 healthcare workers on the administration of EpiPen.
• In Thailand, we worked closely with the Ministries of Health to ensure scientific awareness
about medications commonly used to treat severe symptoms of COVID-19 and secure supply in
collaboration with authorities.
Sources 1Medicines Patent Pool press release
2I mpact of the COVID-19 Pandemic on Patients Affected by
Non-Communicable Diseases in Europe and in the USA
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 16
Our work to fight COVID-19 also included going directly into communities with partners to A SPECIAL FOCUS ON CHILDREN AND MENTAL HEALTH
raise awareness of growing mental health issues, creating access to treatments in vulnerable
Recognizing the need to address the mental health effects of the virus, we worked to help
regions and seeking insight into how COVID-19 was affecting care. A few examples are below:
address COVID-19’s impact on one of the world’s most vulnerable populations: children. Made
• We launched various mental health initiatives, leveraging the Yellow September campaign, possible by Viatris, Sesame Workshop published online resources to help families talk about the
and Towards Life #yougotthis in Brazil, Central America and the Caribbean to reinforce stigma associated with COVID-19 and encourage kids and grown-ups alike to show empathy,
the importance of taking care of mental health, especially during the pandemic. The kindness and compassion. In the “Caring for Each Other” series, videos and printable resources
#yougotthis campaign reached 8 million people in 14 markets.
aimed to help children manage strong emotions and big feelings or stay connected with
• In Brazil, Viatris launched The Mental Health Guide with the hospital Oswaldo Cruz. family and friends, among other supports.
Each chapter was written by a different specialist and the guide was made available
for download for healthcare professionals, patients and their families.
• We engaged with hospital groups and the South African Health Products Regulatory
Authority to make remdesivir available for the treatment of more than 2,000 hospitalized
COVID-19 patients.
• Viatris Vietnam supported Vingroup, a local distribution partner, in their donation
of remdesivir to the Ministry of Health to provide expedited and affordable access
to patients.
• In France, we partnered with MesDocteurs to announce the launch of an application to
help pharmacists manage their appointments with patients seeking the COVID-19 vaccine.
• In Thailand, we worked to raise awareness about long-term lung function issues for some
patients who recover from COVID-19. We worked in partnership on the Save Lungs, Save
Lives project with the department of disease control (MoPh), Central Chest Institute of
Thailand, Bamrasnaradura Infectious Diseases Institute and Physical Therapy Association
of Thailand.
Our partnership with Sesame Workshop is continuing in 2022, with the release of live action
videos addressing topics including separation anxiety and isolation, normalizing seeking
help for mental health care and coping with unpredictability and stress. The materials will
be available in multiple languages, including English, Arabic, Hindi, Turkish and Korean.
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 17
This chapter includes:
Access and
Policy Engagement to
Support Equitable Access
Global Health
Addressing the Burden of NCDs
Advancing Access to Biosimilars
Helping Build Resilient
Healthcare Systems
Fighting Infectious Disease
UN SDGs:
Promoting Women’s Health
Good Health and Well-Being (3)
Gender Equality (5) Addressing Antimicrobial Resistance
Partnerships for the Goals (17)
Our company’s commitment to sustainable access to high-quality medicines is fundamental “I truly believe that Viatris has an important role to play in addressing
to our mission of empowering people worldwide to live healthier at every stage of life. We unmet needs and gaps in treatment to help improve the reality
believe strongly in doing our part to build a better future by helping tackle some of the world’s for the millions of people worldwide who deserve better access
most complex health problems. To address the overall burden of disease, we go beyond making to medicine.”
and distributing medicine to also building public awareness, supporting research and access to — Abhijit Barve
education and pursuing innovative solutions for a holistic approach to prevention Chief Medical Officer, Viatris
and treatment.
This approach rests on three pillars: access, leadership and partnership: Providing patients
with access to high-quality, trusted medicines, regardless of geography or circumstance;
advancing sustainable operations and innovative solutions to improve patient health; and
leveraging the collective expertise together with our partners to connect more people to
Read more on this topic
more products and services.
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 18
SUSTAINABLE ACCESS AND GLOBAL HEALTH Generics, complex generics and biosimilars play a very important role in expanding and
sustaining access to medicines across geographies and income levels. However, utilization
Ensuring sustainable access to medicine and empowering people to live healthier requires
of these medicines continues to vary around the world, often due to lack of awareness and
a multipronged approach that includes a global, diversified and reliable supply of medicine
education or policies that favor originator products. High-income countries have benefited
delivered via a broad and differentiated portfolio across geographies, policy solutions that
from tremendous savings associated with generic and biosimilar competition, which in many
remove barriers to medicine and care, greater regulatory harmony, disease awareness among
cases has led to expanded access to medicines.
patients and healthcare providers, and strong partnerships that address local patient needs
while strengthening global health.
NOTABLE GENERICS SAVINGS IN 20201,2
United 90% utilization
States 20% medicines spending
Europe 67% utilization
29% medicines spending
Canada 74% utilization
27% medicines spending
Australia 84% utilization
29% medicines spending
Data not specific to Viatris
Our Innovative and Differentiated Pipeline
Our diverse portfolio of more than 1,400 approved molecules enables us to address
pressing health challenges through a vertically integrated operational and global commercial
platform. Our portfolio addresses both infectious diseases, like HIV/AIDS and tuberculosis and
NCDs, like cardiovascular disease, cancer and diabetes, which represent some of the world’s
deadliest illnesses. We are building a portfolio and leveraging our deep scientific capabilities
We truly believe that through our capabilities and partnerships, serving patients in more so we can develop more complex and novel products, providing greater opportunities for us to
than 165 countries and territories, we can contribute to progress on the UN Global Compact target gaps in patient care where others may not focus.
Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) #3 — ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for
As part of our product development and portfolio management, our R&D expertise helps
all at all ages. In 2021, we sold more than 80 billion doses of medicine worldwide. We reached
drive our mission. We do this through a focus on:
approximately 90% of low- and lower-middle-income countries with approximately 7.7 billion
doses of medicine. • addressing unmet medical needs by enhancing existing products;
• diligently pursuing generics opportunities;
To help ensure access and strengthen the resilience of healthcare systems, we have set
goals around access to HIV treatment for adults and children and patient impact via • seeking to expand access through new product submissions; and
healthcare professional training by the end of 2025, which are described in further detail
• maintenance and compliance of our existing portfolio of marketed products.
later in this chapter.
Sources 1AAM 2020 Report: Generic Drug and Biosimilars Access and Savings in the U.S.
2I GBA: The positive impact that generic and biosimilar medicines have on patients and health
systems December 2020
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 19
DRIVING POLICY SOLUTIONS FOR EQUITABLE ACCESS • Partnered with the Center for Research on Complex Generics (CRCG), an initiative funded
by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and charged with fostering collaborative
An important part of driving access to high-quality, more affordable medicines for patients is
interactions to stimulate generic drug research engagement and accelerating progress in
addressing complex regulatory, policy and economic barriers while ensuring continued quality
areas of high priority to FDA’s Office of Generic Drugs (OGD) and the generic drug industry.
and patient safety. That entails working to support harmonization of different frameworks and
Notably, we are working to accelerate scientific advances for complex products, which
economic models that preserve and advance access to quality medicines; building healthier
include products with complex active ingredients, formulations, routes of delivery,
markets that can sustain access in years to come; and strengthening an interconnected, global
as well as complex drug-device combination products. Our hope is that this will help
and resilient supply chain where domestic production policies do not impede the ability of the
to advance development of these products, which have the potential to enhance patient
healthcare system to respond to the ongoing needs of patients.
access and provide significant cost savings around the world, as FDA approvals often pave
the way for other geographies.
“Our work to serve patients takes many forms at Viatris. Our core
• Engaged with industry partners globally to support the harmonization of bioequivalence
work is clear — ensuring patients have access to medicines to treat
requirements. We are seeking to facilitate the approach of global product development
conditions that affect their daily lives. But beyond that, Viatris strives
to shape the healthcare system in ways that will provide better care through harmonized standards for quality, efficacy and safety of affordable medicines for
to patients and at lower costs.” patients worldwide.
— Anne Wilson We also work closely with partners to break down barriers to care and advance local solutions
Head of North America Public Affairs and to our global policy priorities. In 2021, this work included:
Strategic Partnerships, Viatris
• Leading a coalition in the U.S. trying to modernize prescription labeling policies and
ensure up-to-date information is easily accessible for prescribers and patients.
Healthcare systems vary around the world, but there are systemic issues that affect everyone: • Heading a successful effort to encourage the U.S. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid
the need for greater regulatory efficiency, breaking inequality in access to care, and long- Services (CMS) to update formulary policy for interchangeable biosimilars, which will
term investment in healthcare. Ensuring that all stakeholders have the facts about generic and speed patient access to these products.
biosimilar medicines, and that health systems do not disincentivize use of competitive • Engaging on the European Union’s revisions to the Pharmaceutical Strategy for Europe
alternatives like generic and biosimilar medicines, are important aspects of Viatris’ public policy directly and through our industry association, Medicines for Europe.
efforts. Increasingly, the savings generated by the growing use of generics and biosimilars
• Advocating through Generic and Biosimilar Medicines of South Africa (GBMSA) for the
are allowing healthcare systems to treat more patients for the same amount of money.
local regulatory agency (SAHPRA) to accelerate progress working through an 8-year
To help drive these issues within our industry on global, regional and local levels, we hold
backlog in drug registrations.
leadership roles in more than 25 industry associations and actively engage in more than
100 groups worldwide. • Partnering with the Egyptian Drug Agency (EDA) and IQVIA on platform enhancing track-
and-trace processes to support access to safe and qualified products for Egyptian patients.
To that end, in 2021 we:
• Participated on the International Council for Harmonisation (ICH) Expert Working
Groups dedicated to harmonizing guidelines across a broad range of topics. Achieving
greater harmonization in the interpretation and application of technical guidelines for
pharmaceutical products is important to expanding access faster.
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 20
ADDRESSING THE BURDEN OF NONCOMMUNICABLE DISEASES
NCDs are the leading causes of death globally. According to the World Health Organization Connecting Patients to Health and Wellness
(WHO), NCDs are responsible for about 41 million deaths each year representing nearly 71%
Viatris produced the Listen Well podcast, which features Dr. Mo Alsuwaidan
of all deaths worldwide.1 Poverty is closely linked with the prevalence of NCDs, with more than
70% of deaths from NCDs occurring in low- and middle-income countries. Healthcare costs exploring topics including pain, depression, inflammation and sleep. The goal is
associated with NCDs are high, and that’s especially burdensome for low-income countries. to empower patients to make informed choices about their health.
Four disease areas represent about 80% of
deaths from NCDs: cardiovascular diseases,
cancer, respiratory diseases and diabetes.1
• In China, to support the exchange of best practices in multidisciplinary pain management,
Viatris’ portfolio helps address these areas and,
Viatris hosted the second 2021 Pain-Medicine of the World Exchange Research Summit. It
via our commercial footprint and partnerships,
combined online and offline meetings, where experts shared cutting-edge knowledge and
we seek to leverage our portfolio to bring access
advanced experience in the field of pain management, including diagnosis and evaluation,
and other services to patients and healthcare
holistic treatment, appropriate use and digital health.
systems across the world.
• In Australia, to support patients affected by severe allergies to access treatment,
We also strive to educate our employees
Viatris offers the MyEpiPen® patient support program that also includes guidance for
on the importance of tackling NCDs so that
appropriate use. In support of the one in five Australians affected by allergic rhinitis,
we are better positioned to help patients. In
Viatris also provides education, prepared in consultation with external experts, to support
2021, we established the Viatris NCD Center of
consumers, pharmacy assistants and pharmacists in helping patients identify and choose
Excellence, an internal platform to further
appropriate medications.
enhance knowledge in NCDs and help build
• In Austria, launched Semglee® for patients living with diabetes, making the treatment
meaningful partnerships and patient-centric
the first reimbursed biosimilar insulin glargine in the market.
programs through leveraging our medical
knowledge, portfolio, distribution capabilities • In South Africa, expanded availability of Ogiviri® and Fulphilia®, which increased access
and external partnerships. In addition, we to high-qualty biosimilars, saving nearly $2 million USD.
published a white paper for employees about
• In the Philippines, supplied the Department of Health’s order for more than 30,000
taking an integrated approach to care for NCDs
units of trastuzumab 150mg for their Breast Cancer Medicines Access Program (BCMAP).
and infectious diseases.
The medicine is accessible for free to more than 1,000 qualified breast cancer patients.
Other ways in which we advanced awareness, prevention, treatment and diagnosis of NCDs • In New Zealand, Viatris’ rosuvastatin was included in the government program for
last year included: subsidized treatment for people at increased risk of cardiovascular complications
due to high cholesterol. The government expects about 75,000 patients will benefit.
• Expanded access to treatment for men with metastatic prostate cancer with the launch
A pro-equity component will specifically enable Māori and Pacific peoples to access
of abiraterone, a generic cancer medicine.
the product as a first-line treatment option.
• In Korea, launched LipitorPlus, a combination of Lipitor’s API and ezetimibe. The new
single-pill combination offers a more convenient treatment for patients with dyslipidemia,
or high cholesterol.
Sources 1WHO NCD Fact Sheet
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 21
ADVANCING ACCESS TO BIOSIMILARS “Viatris has a long-standing commitment to improving patient access to
sustainable, quality and more affordable healthcare. We are extremely
Our offering of one of the industry’s largest and most diverse global biosimilars franchises proud to stay true to that promise by bringing to millions of Americans
is especially important to help meet the urgent need for increased access to biologics, with diabetes this interchangeable biosimilar treatment option. Biosimilar
particularly in many underserved regions, countries and emerging markets around the world. and interchangeable biosimilar products have the potential to greatly
Our portfolio is focused on the areas of oncology, immunology, endocrinology, ophthalmology reduce healthcare costs, regardless of financial circumstances, insurance
and dermatology. As of December 2021, we had more than 400 market authorizations or channel.”
worldwide, including in more than 80 low- and lower-middle-income countries.
— J ose Cotarelo
In 2021, we achieved several milestones in introducing biosimilars across the world, including: Head of North America, Viatris
• In the EU, secured the European Commission’s marketing authorization approval of
Abevmy®, a biosimilar to Roche’s Avastin®. This milestone demonstrates our deep
commitment to contributing to the European Commission’s “Beating Cancer” plan,
Creating a Future Biosimilars Leader
increasing patient access to this important therapy area.
In early 2022, we announced that we will contribute our biosimilars portfolio to Biocon
• In Japan, along with our partner Fujifilm Kyowa Kirin Biologics, we launched the first
Biologics, which will become a uniquely positioned, vertically integrated company that
biosimilar of Humira®, which ultimately should serve patients access to more affordable
we expect to be a global biosimilars leader. Upon the closing, Viatris will hold a stake of
treatment options.
at least 12.9% in the company and have a seat on the board. We have had a successful
collaboration with Biocon Limited, the majority shareholder of Biocon Biologics,
A Historic Approval in the U.S. to Help Patients Living With Diabetes
which began more than a decade ago, and this transaction is a continuation of Viatris’
In July 2021, Viatris and Biocon received approval from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration biosimilars journey that we believe will enable us to participate in this space in a more
for Semglee® (insulin glargine-yfgn) injection, the first interchangeable biosimilar product in optimized way. The transaction is currently expected to occur in the second half of 2022
the U.S. under the 351(k) regulatory pathway. This approval marked a milestone for Viatris and subject to satisfaction of closing conditions, including certain regulatory approvals.
is a strong example of our ability to break down barriers to access and bring first-to-market
products to patients.
The interchangeable Semglee product, which allows substitution of Semglee for the reference HELPING TO BUILD MORE RESILIENT HEALTHCARE SYSTEMS
product, Lantus® at the pharmacy counter in the U.S., was introduced in November. Semglee
is indicated to control high blood sugar in adults with Type 2 diabetes and adults and pediatric Primary healthcare systems are at the core of providing and expanding cost-effective care
patients with Type 1 diabetes. strategies and are essential to advancing universal health coverage. The WHO states that
primary healthcare is the most inclusive, equitable, cost-effective and efficient approach
Viatris and Biocon’s insulin glargine has received regulatory approval in more than 60
to enhance people’s physical and mental health, as well as social well-being. In addition, the
countries around the world and was the third product developed by the Viatris-Biocon
WHO says that scaling up primary healthcare interventions across low- and middle-income
Biologics collaboration to be approved by the U.S. FDA.
countries could save 60 million lives and increase average life expectancy by 3.7 years
by 2030.1
Meanwhile, 40% of countries worldwide have fewer than 10 physicians per 10,000
residents.2 For systems to fully realize a shift to primary healthcare, they must implement
new, proven guidance to enhance capacity of the health workforce while ensuring all
sectors of society promote well-being.
Sources 1WHO Fact Sheet Primary Heath Care
2World Bank Data
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 22
To help do that, Viatris has made supporting third-party HCP education a priority. Our Medical
Affairs team has partnered with the American College of Cardiology (ACC), the World Heart
GOAL
Federation (WHF) and the NCD Alliance on the creation of the NCD Academy, a web-based,
globally accessible and free educational platform for healthcare professionals at every level Impact 100 million patients via HCP education and outreach regarding prevention,
to improve the prevention and treatment of NCDs. diagnosis and treatment options for cardiovascular disease, diabetes, cancer and other
important chronic conditions to improve outcomes through the NCD Academy by the
“By providing primary care physicians and community health end of 2025.
workers with the expertise to more effectively treat patients
as well as diagnose and prevent chronic diseases, we can help
support efforts to effectively address care gaps that are
Collaborating to Ease the NCD Burden Worldwide
prevalent in many regions across the world.“
Given the critical need for holistic efforts to support effective NCD management and help
— Lobna Salem ease the burden of NCDs worldwide, partnerships are fundamental. Our collaborations in
Chief Medical Officer for Developed Markets 2021 included the following:
and JANZ, Viatris
• Viatris signed a Memorandum of Understanding with The Defeat-NCD Partnership
(DNCD) at the United Nations Institute for Training and Research (UNITAR), focused on
continuing cooperation and jointly utilizing and leveraging existing resources and facilities
The NCD Academy has launched courses on oncology, mental health, diabetes and
for programs and initiatives aimed at addressing NCDs and the impacts on these patients
cardiovascular disease and more will follow. Courses are available in multiple languages
from COVID-19. The focus will be on enhancing care policies for prevention and treatment,
including English, Chinese and Spanish. The NCD Academy collaborated with more than
particularly in assisting low- and middle-income countries. As part of these efforts, a white
60 local, regional and global partners including the Philippine Academy of Family Physicians,
paper has been submitted to a scientific peer-review journal for possible publication.
Bulgarian League of Hypertension and the Brazilian Society of Cardiology to help reach
more patients. • Viatris Thailand partnered with the Department of Disease Control, Ministry of Public
Health, Central Chest Institute of Thailand, Bamrasnaradura Infectious Diseases Institute
In 2021, the NCD Academy grew by more than 7,000 new individual users, representing
and Physical Therapy Association of Thailand to provide education regarding lung function
a reach of more than 21 million patients annually.1 In addition to the NCD Academy, we
rehabilitation for recovering COVID-19 patients.
conducted extensive HCP education and trainings in 2021 across countries in our Emerging
• In Spain, the Viatris Foundation and Francisco de Vitoria University signed a collaboration
Markets segment, reaching more than 95,000 HCPs and impacting more than 260 million
patients1 in areas including cardiovascular disease, mental health, primary care and urology. agreement for joint activities to help improve health services. The collaboration will
include training oncology residents on effective communication with patients.
Looking forward, new virtual courses and outreach available for HCPs across geographies
• In China, Viatris signed a strategic partnership agreement with China Cardiovascular
are to be developed and implemented by the NCD Academy to further expand content
Association, aiming to continually promote cardiovascular health and improve the level of
and reach.
prevention and treatment of cardiovascular diseases. As part of that, a project to promote
integrated management of chest pain treatment was also launched. The project includes
the establishment of a chest pain center, quality control and recertification management
and aims to expand access to chest pain treatment.
Sources 1P atient reach calculated by multiplying the number of HCP learners by the average
number of patients treated, as self-reported by HCP learners upon registering for NCD
Academy. Patient reach includes unique patients as well as repeat patient encounters.
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 23
FIGHTING INFECTIOUS DISEASE We are also committed to making HIV testing more accessible through the availability of rapid
diagnostic tests for self-testing, HIV recency tests in low- and middle-income countries, and
Viatris has an ongoing commitment to the HIV/AIDS community and continues to work to bring
TELE as a dual oral pill for HIV and pregnancy prevention. All of these are important to our
newer, better and innovative ARVs to patients in need. In 2021, we supplied ARV treatments to
collective goal of preventing HIV infections, expanding treatment and providing healthcare
more than 100 countries, including countries with a high burden of HIV and tuberculosis (TB).
solutions to patients living with HIV.
As the COVID-19 pandemic has put a great strain on health systems and resources, care has
As we look ahead, HIV treatment is likely to move away from daily dosing to long-acting
been disrupted for many through delays in testing, treatment and other services. According to
solutions that can be taken only weekly, monthly or even less often. Such long-acting therapies
the UN, 90% of countries are reporting disruptions to one or more essential health services.
might be easier for some people to maintain than daily pills and might also be more cost effective.
This is especially concerning in low-income countries, where six of the top 10 causes of death
We are committed to innovating to meet the needs of patients living with HIV.
are infectious diseases that include TB, malaria and HIV/AIDS.1
“No company or country can end AIDS alone. Providing patients with
high quality and affordable HIV treatment at scale is underpinned by
a global focus and partnerships across stakeholders along the entire
GOAL value chain. We are very proud to be part of this effort and of the
trust put in us by our partners.“
Provide ARV therapy equivalent to a total of 30 million patients, including more
— Erika Satterwhite
than 2 million children living with HIV/AIDS, between 2022 and the end of 2025.
Head of Global Policy, Viatris
Other highlights in infectious disease care in 2021 included:
Expanding Access to HIV/AIDS
Treatment • Engaged with the South Africa National Department of Health and CHAI to make flucytosine
available for the treatment of HIV patients with cryptococcal meningitis.
~40% In 2021, Viatris was the first to bring to market
the much-anticipated 10 mg, dispersible, scored, • Conducted awareness sessions for healthcare professionals in Cambodia, Thailand, Kenya and
strawberry-flavored, pediatric formulation of other countries on topics including treatment for adults and children living with HIV.
dolutegravir. This was made possible through a
• Partnered with DNDi for development and commercialization of sustained-release
partnership between Unitaid, CHAI, ViiV Healthcare
of adults and flucytosine to simplify inpatient and outpatient treatment of cryptococcal infections, which
and Viatris, which resulted in the fastest regulatory
are opportunistic infections associated with patients with advanced HIV disease. As part of
approval under the U.S. President’s Emergency
this project we are the manufacturing and commercialization partner whereas DNDi will
Plan For AIDS Relief (PEPFAR) program of a generic
be helping us with the clinical studies.
>60% pediatric HIV drug to date. The approval allows the
• Partnered with Sedia Biosciences to be its commercial partner for the HIV Recency Test, a
treatment to be offered outside of the U.S.; about
diagnostic used to indicate whether an HIV infection happened within the past six months.
90% of pediatric patients with HIV are located in
This test can be used for surveillance efforts and informing where prevention and treatment
sub-Saharan Africa. The treatment is available at a
initiatives should be focused.
of children being treated for cost of $36 per child2, significantly less than the only
HIV use a Viatris product* previously available treatment at approximately • Agreed with Unitaid, with support from Atomo, for a significant market expansion of HIV
$438 per child. self-testing, with commitments to make testing more affordable and widely available in
135 eligible countries.
* Excludes the U.S., EU and other developed markets. Also Sources 1WHO: The top 10 causes of death
excludes Russia, China and Mexico, where we do not 2For an average child weighing between 10 kg to <14 kg
commercialize ARVs.
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 24
In 2021, we made that treatment available in 22 European countries, including the United
Kingdom, via a partnership with Tanner Pharmaceuticals. The treatment had been approved in
Integrating Care for NCDs and Infectious Disease 2020 by the European Medicines Agency to be used as part of a combination regimen to treat
XDR-TB and MDR/RR-TB.
While treatment of HIV has expanded, people living with HIV are at higher risk for
several NCDs, including cardiovascular diseases, depression and cancer. In 2021, Prior to introduction of this novel drug, treatment for highly drug-resistant TB consisted of
a specific government commitment to NCDs and HIV integration was made at the combinations of many different drugs, which may need to be taken for 18 to 20 months.
UN General Assembly High-Level Meeting on AIDS. It provides an extraordinary Patients may take as many as 20 pills a day, resulting in numerous side effects and often
opportunity to build on the experiences, successes and lessons learned from the creating a significant economic burden.
treatment of HIV and promote screening, diagnosis, treatment and care of NCDs in
Other highlights in 2021 in TB care included:
the HIV community.
• Approval of Dovprela® in late 2021 from the Ministry of Food and Drug Safety in Korea, where
Viatris has a strong legacy and competencies in the prevention and treatment of
the government is focused on combating TB as one of its major health goals. Dovprela is
both NCDs and HIV/AIDS. We seek to be an active partner in advancing the integrated
expected to contribute a great deal to treating diseases and improving quality of life in
management of these diseases, including working with applicable stakeholders
patients with tuberculosis.
to remove barriers and establish sustained and affordable access to treatment,
management, education and awareness. In 2021, we participated in a UN General • Viatris India has partnered with an India-based health-tech startup called Qure.ai to
Assembly side event to discuss these issues and supported the NCD Alliance Report expand access to screening of patients for TB. The software application, called “qXR,” is
on HIV and NCDs, which offered some solutions. designed to help reduce misdiagnoses caused by manual errors. This partnership will
enable Viatris to further extend support to the government of India’s vision of eliminating
TB by 2025 through early and accurate diagnosis of its citizens.
Making Tuberculosis Care More Accessible PROMOTING WOMEN’S HEALTH
In 2020, tuberculosis (TB) was the second leading infectious killer after COVID-19. In that Gender is an important factor in determining both access to medicine and health outcomes.
year alone, more than 1.5 million people died from TB, while an estimated 10 million people All too often, sociocultural factors can prevent women and girls from accessing quality health
worldwide were newly diagnosed.1 For people living with HIV/AIDS, TB is the leading cause of services. At the same time, improving health outcomes for women and girls can have a positive
death. Eight countries account for two-thirds of the total TB cases: India, China, Indonesia, impact for communities at large.
the Philippines, Pakistan, Nigeria, Bangladesh and South Africa.1
Given our strong legacy of support for the HIV/AIDS community, Viatris has been working to
But TB also remains a major public health challenge in other parts of the world, too, including address some of the gender-related factors that play a role in exposure to risk of infection and
Europe, where research into new therapies has historically been neglected. As the largest access to treatment. In some parts of the world, women and girls face increased vulnerability
producer of HIV drugs by volume, we realized we have a powerful platform to help those living to HIV/AIDS due to gender-based violence and poor or restricted access to sexual and
with TB around the world, including the regions where the TB burden is the highest — in low- reproductive health information and services. Overall, HIV prevalence tends to be higher in
and lower-middle income countries. Since 2019, we have collaborated with the nonprofit TB women across sub-Saharan Africa, where six in seven new HIV infections among adolescents aged
Alliance as its global commercialization partner for the first drug approved to treat extensively 15–19 years old are among girls.2
drug resistant TB (XDR-TB) or multi-drug resistant TB (MDR/RR-TB) that is treatment-intolerant
or non-responsive.
Sources 1WHO Fact Sheet Tuberculosis
2 UNAIDS Global HIV & AIDS statistics — Fact sheet
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 25
In 2021, Viatris endorsed the Women’s Empowerment ADDRESSING ANTIMICROBIAL RESISTANCE
Principles to promote women’s empowerment in the
Antimicrobial resistance (AMR) is a significant threat to global health and economic
workplace, marketplace and community. That important
development. It is a major driver of death globally, potentially accounting for more deaths than
declaration, along with our establishment of the Women’s
HIV/AIDS and malaria worldwide. Recent research shows that in 2019, more than 1.2 million
Employee Resource Group (EmpoWer) and our fundamental
people are estimated to have died directly from antibiotic-resistant bacterial infections, and the
commitment to gender equality in the workplace, serves to
estimate grows to 4.95 million deaths when considering cases where resistant infections
ensure women are at the table when making important
played a role but may not have been the direct cause of death. By 2050, it is estimated that
decisions that affect other women and their access to
AMR will cause more deaths than cancer.1
high-quality healthcare.
Viatris remains committed to addressing AMR and advancing appropriate access to
Our work to support women’s health in 2021 included: antimicrobials. Fighting AMR requires a multipronged approach — access, stewardship
and responsible manufacturing.
• Progressing work on the dual-pill project with the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation
and the Children’s Investment Fund Foundation to increase access to pre-exposure Access to high-quality antimicrobials and timely treatment is key in mitigating the rise of AMR.
prophylaxis (PrEP) and contraceptives. Viatris is a leading supplier of antimicrobials, including older antibiotics that can be valuable in
• Launching the “V for HER” Emerging Markets campaign to raise awareness of treating some resistant bacteria. As a founding member of the AMR Industry Alliance, we are
breast cancer prevention and treatment. committed to partnering across industry to collectively advance initiatives addressing AMR.
These efforts have led to progress in advancing science-based approaches to help manage the
• Running educational programs and activities to expand access to menopause treatment
impact of antimicrobial manufacturing, develop initiatives to enhance antibiotic stewardship
and education, including webinars in collaboration with the European Menopause and
and improve sustainable access to appropriate antibiotics.
Andrology Society.
• Commencing research together with external experts on health equality and social
determinants of health, initially focusing on inequities in cancer screening, including
Reporting on Progress in the Fight on AMR
cervical and breast cancer.
• Helping avert a national shortage of estradiol hormone replacement therapy patches In the Access to Medicine Foundation’s AMR Benchmark and the AMR Industry
in New Zealand when the current supplier could not supply for an extended period. Alliance Progress Report, Viatris was recognized as one of the top three generics
Thanks to our global and flexible supply chain, Viatris allocated 300,000 patches from manufacturers for championing appropriate access and stewardship and
the U.S. stock to New Zealand. responsible manufacturing. We were also commended for our transparency in
reporting on our environmental risk management strategy for manufacturing sites
“Science, like all walks of life, needs diversity of thought and and for meeting discharge targets at our sites. The report also recognized Viatris’
approach. Not only do we want to encourage women and girls strategies for expanding access, including making treatment for drug-resistant
to explore science, but science needs more women making TB available in more countries than ever and ensuring a continuous supply of
contributions to its advancement. To meet our mission and relevant products. We were also acknowledged for our AMR education programs
help people live healthier lives, we need women contributing for healthcare providers.
to healthcare solutions.”
— Andrea Miller
Head of Global Regulatory Affairs and Product Safety
and Risk Management, Viatris
Sources 1. Global burden of bacterial antimicrobial
resistance in 2019: A systematic analysis
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 26
Working at Viatris
UN SDGs:
Good Health and Well-Being (3)
Gender Equality (5)
Decent Work and Economic Growth (8)
Reduced Inequalities (10)
We marked our first year as Viatris in November 2021 and celebrated the collaboration “Working at Viatris for me means I have an opportunity to make a
and extraordinary work of our colleagues to advance on our mission. That shared purpose difference every day. Each product we ship and the decisions we
motivates us to bring our best every day and create a performance-driven, highly make will make a difference to someone, somewhere in the world.”
engaging and inclusive organization. We have established the foundation for the kind of — Sandra Stephenson
healthcare company we want to be and are building a culture that positions Viatris as more Head of Regional Quality Operations – JANZ, Viatris
than just a place to work — it’s a place to make a difference.
Read more on this topic
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 27
COMING TOGETHER AS VIATRIS Celebrating One Year of Impact
Since the creation of Viatris, we have remained focused on providing engaging and In 2021, we started what we hope will be a new tradition, Impact Week. The week celebrated
rewarding opportunities for colleagues to gain a sense of purpose as they learn, grow our one-year anniversary and recognized patients, colleagues and communities worldwide.
and make a difference. Key activities included employee volunteer and charitable activities worldwide, a special town
hall attended by nearly 11,000 colleagues, ringing the opening bell at NASDAQ, and a LinkedIn
After establishing our new organizational structure in 2020, leaders around the world
Live panel discussion on access to treatment and building resilient healthcare systems. The week
formed teams in the first quarter of 2021 to maintain momentum and inspire work for
concluded with a day of appreciation for our global workforce.
long-term success. In that first quarter, senior leadership also introduced priorities for the
new company — Meet or Exceed Our Financial Commitments; Build Our Future; Establish
The Viatris Way; and Live Our Mission — to drive performance by aligning employees’ work
across the organization.
We sought to keep the organization informed and aware of progress throughout our
integration. As we introduced new ways of working and grew our presence in new markets,
HR Service Center representatives with knowledge of regional cultures and expanded
language support contributed to creating a positive, inclusive employee experience.
An important part of building Viatris is integrating workforce data and harmonizing the
programs, processes and platforms for attracting, developing and rewarding talent. By the
end of 2021, approximately 83% of all workforce data was managed in our common HR
information system. We anticipate nearly all of our workforce data will be maintained in
one common source by the end of 2022.
“Our talented colleagues advance our mission by working to make
a difference every day, by applying their unique experiences,
perspectives and skills. A key priority has been engaging our
employees throughout our integration efforts and the strategic
review of our business — two essential components for building
Viatris to be a long-term, reliable partner for patient access and
health. The dedication and collaboration of our workforce are
what made such great strides over the last year possible.”
— Andrew Enrietti
Chief Human Relations Officer, Viatris
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 28
Engaging Colleagues As We Move Forward Supporting Colleagues Through Change: Responsible Restructuring
Organizational culture is at the heart of every company. To meet business needs, we’re We continued to support colleagues while implementing our global restructuring initiative
creating a culture in which everyone should feel encouraged to reach their full potential — which began in December 2020. The announced changes are designed to help ensure we can
The Viatris Way. To help build a more future-fit organization, further equipped to understand deliver sustainable value to patients, customers, shareholders and other stakeholders and
and meet evolving employee expectations, we developed our HR team to include roles focusing meet our financial commitments. We are committed to remaining transparent and treating
on the Employee Experience and DE&I. employees fairly and with respect throughout. In that spirit, in 2021 we:
To foster engagement, in 2021, we: • Worked diligently to help preserve jobs wherever possible at impacted facilities across
our network. The effort involved identifying potential new facility owners, and in some
• Initiated a comprehensive project with colleagues across the company to define our
instances transferring facilities at a significant discount. Examples include New Jersey
common behaviors — our company’s core values. As part of ensuring our behaviors truly
and Puerto Rico. We also partnered with affected communities to identify potential
reflect who we are as a company and what we aspire to be, our CEO conducted a listening
alternatives, wherever feasible.
tour with more than 400 colleagues around the world, connecting local, regional and
global workstreams. The common core behaviors will be introduced in 2022. • Entered into discussions to transfer ownership of the Chestnut Ridge manufacturing facility
in Morgantown, West Virginia, to an entity of West Virginia University, which plans to use
• Established quarterly global town halls with Q&A sessions to communicate more
the facility to provide academic, employment and community opportunities for the region.
frequently and with transparency, and allow for more leadership and employee
The transfer was completed in 2022.
engagement. Popular topics have included integration, our commercial pipeline,
remote work, COVID-19, restructuring, strategic direction and our sustainability efforts. • Supported impacted employees by providing, for example, severance pay, healthcare
continuation for employees and their dependents, outplacement services, employee
• Prepared for Viatris’ initial employee engagement survey, now anticipated to launch in
assistance program counseling, job fairs and tuition assistance, subject to customary local
2022 to support strategic planning that occurred in 2021. The survey will cover a range
considerations and discussions with employee representatives, as applicable.
of topics, including organizational change, sense of belonging, DE&I and health and
well-being. The results will help guide our priorities for enhancing the employee • Worked directly and with third parties and agencies to assist employees in finding new
experience and retaining talent. employment opportunities.
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 29
DIVERSITY, EQUITY AND INCLUSION Going forward, each ERG will focus on four main areas to drive meaningful change: employee
recruitment, talent development, education and awareness, and employee and community
Understanding and embracing what makes everyone and their circumstances unique is
engagement. As we continue to grow and develop, our goal is for all ERGs to build a solid
fundamental to our success. Societal norms and systemic inequities prevent people and
foundation by establishing leadership councils, drafting charters, and recruiting membership
organizations from reaching their full potential. That applies to our own organization
and allyship.
and communities alike, and employees rightfully expect equal opportunities and
inclusive workplaces. • The Black Employee Viatris Resource Group aims to create a more diverse, inclusive
work environment with a focus on current and future Black colleagues through advocacy,
In 2021, we conducted an extensive assessment to better understand the current makeup
community service, networking and professional development.
of our workforce. The findings informed our organizational DE&I goals and will be used
to develop our overall program and embed DE&I throughout the organization, supporting • The EmpoWer Viatris Resource Group advocates for an ecosystem within Viatris that
representation and enhancing the employee experience overall. As a part of this work, we empowers women to reach their full potential.
considered the strategic review of our business and ongoing organizational changes, the
• The VIVID Viatris Resource Group supports LGBTQ+ employees and allies in building an
current diversity in our management pipeline and the existing talent pool, as well as the
inclusive workplace culture where all colleagues can be their authentic selves.
expectations from employees and external stakeholders.
• The Working Parents Viatris Resource Group supports all parents and caregivers
Looking ahead, we will explore opportunities and additional goals in other areas of DE&I. as they navigate the logistical and emotional challenges of balancing professional
To help drive and establish cross-functional accountability, we are forming a Diversity Council and family responsibilities.
to bring together leaders from across our business.
Together, we are creating a positive work environment, where values, integrity and dignity are
respected and equal opportunities exist for all. Discrimination and harassment are strictly
prohibited, and all employees receive annual training on this topic. You can read more about
GOALS
our commitment in our Global Policy on Diversity and Inclusion and our Global Policy Summary
• Engage at least 90% of employees globally on diversity, equity and inclusion
Prohibiting Discrimination, Harassment and Retaliation.
learning by the end of 2023.
• Increase diversity in management:
Increase Women’s representation in senior management globally to at least 35% ATTRACTING AND RETAINING TALENT
by the end of 2027.
To create and sustain a company with motivated and well-prepared employees who can
At least double Black representation in all management levels in the U.S. by the
grow their professional experiences, we encourage the exploration of career opportunities.
end of 2027.
We want to position our employees for success. In 2021, we:
At least double Hispanic/Latinx representation in senior management in the U.S.
• Implemented our applicant tracking system in 47 countries, making it easier for employees
by the end of 2027.
and external candidates to search and apply for open roles.
• Hosted internships and apprenticeships around the world. In North America, more than
Viatris Resource Groups 50% of the 2021 class continued working for Viatris post-internship.
Our four Employee Resource Groups, announced in 2020, are focusing on Black colleagues, • Continued succession planning for our highest leadership positions. In 2022, we plan to
LGBTQ+, Women and Working Parents. Each group brings colleagues together to listen and introduce a streamlined approach for establishing succession plans for all senior-level
learn from each other and raise awareness to change our company and communities for positions and critical roles.
the better.
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 30
Rewarding Performance Hybrid-Remote Work Arrangements
A competitive compensation and benefit program is an important part of attracting Employee expectations and preferences for greater flexibility have been an evolving trend in
talent and driving company performance. We regularly review our incentive programs the workplace for many years, and conversation around the issue was accelerated by the
to ensure they are dynamic to attract and motivate colleagues to achieve the company’s COVID-19 pandemic. We are continually looking for different ways to support colleagues in
key priorities and individual objectives, encourage expected behaviors and create balancing their professional and personal lives while ensuring reliable operations and to
shareholder value. expand our geographic reach in recruiting talent. In 2021, we issued principles in support of
hybrid-remote work to guide the development of local policies where possible.
As part of our integration efforts, important work continued in 2021 to align
compensation and benefit programs across the company by: Nearly 10,000 colleagues worldwide worked remotely at the start of the pandemic in 2020.
As conditions vary locally and change over time, sites are encouraged to adopt formal hybrid-
• Introducing a short-term incentive program providing eligible employees with a
remote work practices in collaboration with colleagues where possible. Global resources are
bonus based on operational and personal performance, funded by the company’s
provided to help guide discussions between managers and employees to determine if a hybrid-
overall global operational results.
remote work arrangement is a good option, covering factors such as team effectiveness, well-
• Harmonizing our long-term incentive program, awarding leaders with the being, accountability and off-site working conditions.
opportunity for stock ownership.
Supporting resources include:
• Training on the transition to remote work. Topics include working effectively, leading
remote teams and using technology.
Becoming an Employer of Choice
• Coaching on enhancing leadership and personal effectiveness skills to help colleagues
• In 2021, Viatris was named one of the World’s Best Employers by Forbes. adapt to working remotely during the pandemic. Topics included preventing burnout,
staying motivated, balancing work in a remote environment and resilience.
• Viatris China was certified by the Top Employers Institute, a global authority on
excellence in HR practices, as one of the country’s 101 top employers. • A cross-functional team has been assembled to focus on the future of work to further
enable hybrid-remote work arrangements and ensure employees have the support
• Viatris Taiwan was named one of the Best Companies to Work for in Asia in 2021
they need on an ongoing basis.
by HR Asia.
• Viatris India received the “Great Place to Work” certification from the Great Place
“COVID accelerated the new reality of employees working
to Work Institute®.
remotely. Our IT teams have gone above and beyond to support
• Viatris Switzerland received the Fair Compensation Certificate from the the needs of these colleagues around the world, including but
Association of Compensation & Benefits Experts. not limited to providing platforms to collaborate virtually and
securing access to business applications and data, thus ensuring
business continuity.”
— Ram Rayapureddy
Chief Information Officer, Viatris
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 31
LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT • Provided virtual workshops for teams in Emerging Markets and Asia as part of the
Empower program to build marketing capability.
As a company founded in science and invested in creating access through innovation, learning
• Helped colleagues learn more about their working styles and strengths through
and development are key to our success and must be constant. In addition to rigorous
leadership assessments from Insights Discovery and CliftonStrengths.
company-required training programs, we encourage personal and professional development
by providing resources and programs to help employees build their skills and expand their • Partnered with Ardor Learning to support colleagues in developing their English
knowledge. We encourage managers and employees to seek out opportunities for growth and language skills.
establish annual development goals. In 2021, at least 18,000 colleagues had a development
plan on record, a number we hope to grow. We offer a number of programs to encourage
PROMOTING EMPLOYEE WELL-BEING
development and learning. In 2021, we:
Our health and well-being offerings for colleagues focus on the physical, emotional, financial and
• Implemented a common performance management process, facilitating consistency in
social aspects of well-being. Sites around the world offer a range of benefits, including wellness
setting performance objectives, reviewing progress, providing feedback and evaluating
programs, education incentives and retirement savings plans to help colleagues and their
performance. The process emphasizes accountability, impact and results. In 2021,
families live a healthy lifestyle. Colleagues are encouraged to take advantage of health screenings
nearly 95% of employees completed performance evaluations.
and flu and COVID-19 vaccinations available on-site or with local healthcare providers.
• Introduced Grow via Learning, an online collection of learning in multiple formats —
reading materials, audiobooks, videos, interactive courses, practice labs, live events and As many colleagues’ personal lives have been affected by the pandemic over the past year,
more — to support employees’ development. This included an investment in an online many sites implemented measures to support mental health, including sessions on mindfulness,
content library powered by Skillsoft Percipio. preventing burnout, nutrition and physical activity. We provided employee assistance programs
across many locations and offered employees support via internal and external resources where
• Offered virtual training on a variety of topics, including diversity and inclusion, mental
these programs were not available.
health, navigating organizational change, and empathy and emotional intelligence,
as well as technical skills such as using Microsoft applications and business writing. To promote wellness, Viatris hosted the Walk Around the World during Impact Week. More
than 3,400 colleagues from 35 countries walked to support our mission. Colleagues collectively
• Achieved completion of nearly 3.3 million courses on topics such as Current Good
walked more than 73,000 miles over a two-week period. In recognition of their efforts, Viatris
Manufacturing Practices (cGMP), regulatory and compliance in MyUniversity, our
made a $100,000 donation to Direct Relief.
online training platform.
Read about how we supported our employees and their families during the COVID-19 pandemic
• Completed 88,300 online learnings, focusing on personal effectiveness, or “power skills.”
on p. 12.
Popular topics included individual professional performance, personal productivity,
leadership and management essentials, and team management.
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 32
EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND SAFETY Rising to a New Safety Training Standard
At Viatris, we cultivate a culture of health and safety throughout our global workforce by Education is key to creating and sustaining a strong safety culture. In 2021, we combined
ensuring that our colleagues and contractors are made aware of issues relevant to their work best practices from both Mylan and UpJohn’s safety training programs to develop Viatris’
and providing them with the personal protective equipment and knowledge required to perform safety training expectations and requirements. A high-level Global Program and a more
their jobs safely. Further, we work to ensure that our systems and processes are designed to specific Technical Requirement educates and guides our locations regarding the use of EHS
identify and reduce health and safety risks or impacts on the communities in which we operate. tools, and the company’s learning management system tracks and supports compliance with
all applicable EHS training regulations and expectations.
In 2021, we developed a holistic EHS management system for Viatris, combining the best parts
of our legacy companies’ systems. By bringing the best of the two companies’ EHS programs All locations will use the same tools and our EHS teams and leaders will have access to
together, we found ways to strengthen our programs, such as Supplier Operations, Process standardized compliance metrics at the site, regional, vertical, and global levels. Our
Safety Management, and Industrial Hygiene. Step by step, our cross-functional teams have centralized approach to tracking training compliance enables us to identify potential gaps
come together to unveil new elements in our pathways to safety, enhancing our programs and fill them quickly using resources and expertise from our global team of EHS colleagues.
in meaningful ways. With a strong commitment from our leaders, we’re working toward
the target of ensuring all sites will complete their best-in-class and compliance activities. “While it’s a challenge to build tools and training courses that are
Additional information about our EHS management system can be found on page 34 and in the useful and applicable to colleagues throughout the world, it’s also
been a great experience collaborating with and learning from my
Management Disclosure Section on page 65.
regional leaders and local colleagues across the globe. I’m proud of
In 2021, we focused on further integrating and enhancing best practices. Throughout the year, we: the rapid expansion of our tools.”
• Published a new Global Health and Safety Policy underscoring our commitments and — S arah Turiano
created Safety Culture Enhancement Plans across our manufacturing sites. Senior Manager, Global EHS Training, Viatris
• Rolled out our revamped Global EHS Management System.
• Developed a new Global Office program for all Viatris locations, launching in certain
regions in 2021, and reappointed Office EHS Liaisons and Office Safety Committees.
• Introduced two safety and risk mitigation programs focused on preventing severe Each year, new Global EHS eLearning courses are developed and made available
incidents: the “VSafety” Situational Workshops aim to reduce incidents where the human in our learning management system. The courses focus on preventing severe
factor is a key contributor, and the Process Safety Management program supports our or fatal injuries. Available topics include Electrical Safety, Confined Space Safety,
critical and hazardous operations. Control of Hazardous Energy and Fall Prevention. The computer-based courses
have a high level of interactivity to ensure colleagues retain critical safety
information and are translated into more than 15 languages. Local EHS teams can
utilize the courses to build customized, role-specific training plans that meet their
site’s compliance requirements.
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 33
PROACTIVE INCIDENT PREVENTION
Our Incident Prevention Opportunity (IPO) and Serious and Fatal Incident Prevention Promoting Safety Excellence
(SFIP) Programs are critical tools in identifying and reducing any risks and serve as
proactive assessment and effective controls. The IPO program contains information about Our St. Albans, Vermont, site implemented a Safety Excellence Program to further
how to report safety concerns, while the SFIP program contains information about how to develop a culture where everyone takes full responsibility for ensuring their safety
identify incidents that had the potential to be severe or fatal. and the safety of others. To that end, all employees recognize that almost all
incidents are predictable and therefore preventable; understand that urgency is
Within the global EHS program, sites pursue initiatives that are specific to local needs and the
never a reason to work unsafely; and pause to consider safety before performing
nature of operations to enhance safety.
any task, planned or unplanned.
• Across our European operations, we implemented even more rigorous inspections of our
As a result of the Safety Excellence Program, the site reduced the number of
machinery by competent assessors, enabling us to identify further improvements and
incidents from 2020 to 2022 by 16 and the number of those recordable by seven.
protections for our colleagues who operate and maintain our production equipment.
The site continues to assess the Leading Indicators — EHS Council, Safety Walks,
• Viatris’ Istanbul site upgraded its lockout/tagout (LOTO) program that protects workers Incident OLT Visits, Investigation Root Cause, and IPOs Submitted — to make
from serious injury or death that can occur from the unexpected release of stored energy additional program improvements and will continue to evaluate and recommend
while servicing equipment. Through this dedicated program, we were able to identify, changes to the program in 2022.
isolate and remove risk elements.
On top of Viatris’ Global EHS programs and standards, several sites hold external certifications.
• 15 sites are certified to ISO 45001.
• Four sites in India received a 5-star rating by the British Safety Council.
“Process Safety forms an integral part of Viatris’ Safety Management
System. It helps to capture and address process safety risks and
protect our employees, facilities and the communities we live
in — ultimately serving supply continuity. As part of our work for
continuous improvements, in 2021, we enhanced the Process Safety
Management program across all locations.”
— V ikas Nigam
Global Process Safety Leader, Viatris
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 34
Advancing Environmentally UN SDGs:
Clean Water and Sanitation (6)
Sustainable Operations Responsible Consumption and Production (12)
Climate Action (13)
Partnerships (17)
“A healthy planet is vital to accomplishing our mission of
We are committed to minimizing our impact on the environment while safeguarding a reliable
empowering people worldwide to live healthier at every stage of
supply of medicine. That entails systematic and continuous work to identify and mitigate risks
life. That’s why we consider water consumption when evaluating
posed by our operations as well as encouraging opportunities to go above and beyond. products, continually evaluate new technologies to reduce our
emissions, waste, and wastewater, and employ innovative thinkers
Environment and human health are interconnected, a relationship underscored by climate
who constantly look for new ways to make our production processes
change, air pollution and water stress, which are among the key environmental issues on
more sustainable.”
which we focus with our global approach to environmental stewardship.
— Sanjeev Sethi
Since creating Viatris, we have established new policies and practices that leverage the
Chief Operating Officer, Viatris
combined talents and deep knowledge of our Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS)
professionals around the globe.
Read more on this topic
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 35
DEVELOPING VIATRIS’ GLOBAL EHS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM CLIMATE CHANGE MITIGATION AND ADAPTATION
In continuing the integration of two strong legacy programs and leveraging their strengths, Climate change is impacting people’s health and environment at large, and as a healthcare
we are working to create a best-in-class model for environmental, health and safety company with a truly global presence in terms of our own operations and workforce, the patients
(EHS) management. that we serve and the partners on whom we depend, we must address climate change head
on. Climate change mitigation and adaptation are part of protecting the resiliency of our supply
Viatris’ new and further improved Global EHS Management System will help to drive the following:
chain, the health and well-being of patients we serve and the communities on which we depend.
• Further reduce risk of incidents and risks to people and the environment.
For us, that includes systematic work to reduce carbon emissions, increasing the use of
• Reinforce our belief that all safety, health and environmental incidents are preventable. renewable energy, enhancing efficiency in our own operations and working with partners to
encourage their efforts. We are also working to protect our employees and operations
• Promote and maintain a work environment in which each and every employee accepts
from the impact of climate change through effective planning, risk mitigation and building
personal responsibility for their own safety and that of their colleagues, where everyone
resilience against the impact of extreme weather.
actively intervenes to ensure the safety and health of others, and in which all colleagues
strive to reduce the company’s impacts on the communities in which we work and live. Providing or deploying appropriate technologies and processes that ensure minimal impact
• Minimize impacts to the environment in a responsible manner while safeguarding access on the climate are core to advancing sustainable operations, and we are systematically and
to medicine. diligently working to minimize our environmental footprint.
We believe these measures will help drive Viatris’ vision of a workplace where we do what’s
right, behave responsibly and set high standards from which we never back down — striving
to keep our products of high quality, our workers safe and the environment clean. GOALS
Our new global environmental policies include:
• Reduce absolute Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 42% by 2030 and reduce Scope
• Global Environmental Stewardship Policy 3 GHG emissions covering purchased goods and services, capital goods, fuel and
energy related alternatives and upstream transportation and distribution by 25%
• Global Climate Change Policy
by 2030, from a 2020 base year. These near-term targets have been submitted to
• Global Water Policy the SBTi for review and validation scheduled for late Q3 2022.
• Perform water risk assessments for all locations in high or extremely high water
“The combined effort of the Viatris team speaks for itself. Together, risk areas as identified by the World Resource Institute and identify appropriate
we’ve built an EHS system capable of identifying and mitigating
water conservation initiatives by 2025.
risks by updating and launching 14 Global Programs, 50 Technical
Requirements and nine Guidelines.” • Achieve a 50% increase in our number of zero landfill locations by 2030 from
a 2020 baseline.
— Kaushik Samanta
Head of Environment, Health and Safety —
India & Rest of World, Viatris
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 36
CLIMATE SCENARIO ANALYSIS We will monitor our progress regularly, tracking GHG emissions monthly, evaluating GHG
reductions annually and re-evaluating short- and long-term emission reduction strategies as
As part of understanding our exposure to physical and economic risk drivers from climate
needed to achieve our targets, with aspirations of achieving net zero in the future.
change, and to inform mitigation and adaptation plans, we began a climate scenario analysis
in 2021 which is continuing in 2022. The analysis is global in scope; this modeling will help us We have established a Scope 3 target to reduce emissions 25% by 20301 as part of our SBTi
identify locations that may be exposed to different types and levels of physical risks in different commitment. To achieve our target, we will work closely with the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain
temperature increase scenarios. Initiative (PSCI). Via our PSCI membership, we will learn, share and advance best practices. For
our suppliers, we plan to develop and deploy a program to help us collect better supplier data.
Ultimately, we want to support our suppliers in setting their own science-based targets.
SETTING SCIENCE-BASED TARGETS
In 2021, we advanced our understanding of how to reduce our greenhouse gas (GHG) “Significant work went into analyses and planning to set science-based
targets for Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions in 2021. It’s no small task, and I am so
emissions by conducting an analysis to identify our baseline and inform targets and action
proud of the teamwork across Viatris and with our external partners. Viatris
plans. Together with internal and external stakeholders over an eight-month period,
has committed to set near-term company-wide emission reductions in line
we gathered, validated and reviewed data required to establish science-based targets.
with climate science with the SBTi. We have submitted our goals to the SBTi,
and while we await approval, work is advancing both in our own operations
With the help of an external firm, EcoAct, we and in our external supply chain engagement to bring down emissions.”
established targets that meet the Science Based Target
Reduce Scope — D ale Stemple
initiative’s (SBTi) latest level of ambition, guidelines
Head of Environment, Health and Safety — NA, EU & IOAO Vertical, Viatris
1 & 2 emissions and requirements. These targets are in line with
what climate scientists say is needed to limit global
temperature rise to 1.5°C. We have submitted our
targets to the SBTi for approval in 2022, focusing on Working to Reduce Emissions in Our Supply Chain
our path to achieve our 2030 goals.
We have been working across our supply chain to reduce carbon emissions, including
Key actions to progress on our SBTi targets reducing the environmental impact of all three of our freight transportation modes:
42%
will include: road, ocean and air. We are planning for longer lead times so we can use ocean freight,
which is less GHG intensive than air. To support that initiative, while ensuring timely
• Increasing renewable energy usage
access to medicine, we have developed a rapid response system and established new
• Implementing energy efficiency projects standard operating procedures, where ocean freight is the standard mode. In the past,
fewer than 50% of products were shipped via ocean. Today, more than 60% of our
• Transitioning to greener refrigerants and
products are shipped via ocean. As timely access to medicine is the superior priority,
preventing refrigerant leaks
there are exceptions where speed is of the essence.
by 2030 • Using alternative fuels and technologies
• Utilizing existing programs, strategies and
commitments to achieve our target
We have reported to the CDP climate program since 2021 CDP Scores
2017, and make our climate and water responses
B
available on CDP’s web page in order to better inform Water security
key stakeholders.
Climate change
B–
Sources 1From a 2020 baseline.
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 37
In 2021, we implemented several initiatives to reduce our carbon emissions, while ensuring a
reliable supply of electricity, which is essential to stable manufacturing and supply of medicine.
We worked to expand the sourcing of renewable energy from solar, wind and hydro and utilized Cleaner Fuel Sources for a Reduced Carbon Footprint
power purchasing agreements.
The Viatris Vega Baja, Puerto Rico,
site completed a Power Purchase
Agreement (PPA) to install a new
combined heat and power (CHP)
In India in 2021, API Unit 7 received the National award for excellence in Energy
system. This CHP system provides more
Management 2021 from the Confederation of Indian Industries-Godrej Green
than 40% of electricity needs, 100% of
Business Council Hyderabad.
steam needs, and 15% of cooling needs
for the site. Also, as the generator
is almost 40% more efficient, we
are able to realize lower-cost energy
Examples from efforts across our sites in 2021:
compared to the local island grid.
• Installed 286 kWp rooftop solar panels in Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient (API) Unit 8,
in India, increasing the total in-house solar panels across our API Units to more than In its first year of operation, the site realized the following benefits:
430 kWp.
• Enhanced business continuity: Pairing the CHP system with other
• Upgraded to LED lighting at our sites globally. The installation of 43,000 watts of new stand-by generators, this system can produce 100% of the site’s electricity
LED bulbs at our India facilities reduced the annual electricity consumption. needs thereby enabling the site to operate during extended grid outages.
• Sent waste globally to cement companies as an alternative fuel source in a waste-to- • Reduced carbon emissions: We realized a 10% reduction in GHG emissions,
energy process which enables cement manufacturing facilities to reduce their fossil equivalent to ~4,280 mt COe from 2020.
2
fuel consumption. For example, we sent more than 65% of India-based API unit waste
• Additional financial benefits: Approximately $500,000 was saved on the
to cement companies to be used for fuel.
cost of electricity in 2021.
• Our Little Island, Ireland, site was recognized with four awards, three of which were
specifically tied to its achievements in sustainability: a Best Energy Achievement Award
from the Irish Business Energy Awards; The Green Manufacturer for the second year in
a row by the Green Business & Sustainability awards; and the Safety and Sustainability
Star Award by Viatris. A fourth was the Pharma Industry Awards Supply Chain
Achievement Award, which recognized the site’s operational success.
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 38
WATER STEWARDSHIP WATER RISK ASSESSMENTS
Water is an essential natural resource. Our manufacturing processes, the communities We perform water risk assessments to identify risks both to and from our activities. All
in which we operate and patients require the availability of clean, unpolluted water. operations sites are periodically audited to ensure compliance with local regulatory and
internal water standards. As part of furthering our stewardship and risk mitigation, we
Guided by our Global Water Policy, we are committed to protecting the health of our
are conducting water risk assessments to protect, conserve and improve water use across
environment and water resources. We believe companies can be a force for good, which
locations in high or extremely-high water risk areas as identified by the World Resources
is why we are a signatory of the UN Global Compact (UNGC) and the UNGC CEO Water
Institute. Based on the assessments, action plans and programs will be put in place.
Mandate. We aim to advance responsible water stewardship in our operations and support
communities’ access to clean water and sanitation and thereby help to advance on the
Sustainable Development Goals.
The UNGC CEO mandate is a commitment platform for business leaders and learners to
advance water stewardship and address global water challenges in partnership with the UN,
governments, civil society organizations and other stakeholders. By endorsing the mandate
we are committed to reporting our progress in six key areas, including:
• Direct operations: We will measure and reduce water use and wastewater discharge
and develop strategies for eliminating impacts on communities and ecosystems.
• Supply chain and watershed management: We will encourage improved water
management among suppliers and public water systems.
• Collective action: We will advance water sustainability by participating in collective efforts
with civil society, intergovernmental organizations, affected communities and businesses.
• Public policy: We will seek ways to facilitate the development and implementation of
sustainable, equitable and coherent water policy and regulatory frameworks.
• Community engagement: We will identify ways to improve water efficiency, protect
watersheds and increase access to water services as a way of promoting sustainable
water management and reducing risk.
• Transparency: We are committed to transparency and disclosure to meet the expectations
of our stakeholders.
GOAL
To perform water risk assessments for all locations in high or extremely-high water
risk areas as identified by the World Resource Institute and identify appropriate water
conservation initiatives by 2025.
Sources 1Our World in Data
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 39
SUSTAINABLE PACKAGING
Water Reduction Initiatives in India We are looking for ways to make our packaging more sustainable while also meeting the
highest regulatory standards around the world.
The majority of our sites in India are located in water-stressed areas, and we continue
Starting in 2019, a dedicated team at our site in Confienza, Italy, in cooperation with
to look for opportunities to reduce our impact by enhancing efficiency, recycling and
R&D colleagues, began to implement specific environmental considerations across the value
repurposing water where possible. In 2021, we recovered and recycled more than
chain into a wide range of projects for over-the-counter products, including processes,
540,000 KL of wastewater, amounting to more than 55% of the total wastewater
packaging material and product design.
generated. These actions decreased our reliance on freshwater.
The team meets monthly to define and pursue so-called green projects related to processes
In 2021, we implemented several initiatives to increase the quantity of water recycled.
and finished products. So far, they have successfully removed external plastic bags covering
For example, we:
the Saugella sanitary napkins box, switched to bio-based plastic for the bag inside the box, and
• Recovered and recycled an additional 14,000 KL of wastewater compared to
they are currently switching to 100% recycled plastic for all shrink plastic film used at the site.
2020 by improving the reverse osmosis systems across four API locations.
• Recycled more than 31,000 KL of water that was discharged by the water In 2021, the team turned its attention to CB12 mouthwash,
plant for use in three of our finished-dosage form and injectable units for our transforming the oral rinse bottles from traditional plastic
utility operations, saving the equivalent in freshwater consumption. (PET) to 100% recycled plastic (rPET). Based on 2021 CB12
production volumes, this change should save more than
• Continued to operate zero liquid discharge technology at nine India facilities.
100 tons of plastic annually, helping us to support the
global agenda to reduce waste as well as attract consumers
who are increasingly opting for products with a reduced
WASTE MANAGEMENT environmental impact.
The facility has also switched to Forest Stewardship Council
Throughout all of our operations, we work diligently to reduce waste. We do this by using
certified cardboard both for food supplements and cosmetics
resources responsibly, increasing recycling, reusing materials and initiatives dedicated
products, alongside the activities for reducing the thickness and
to waste minimization.
size of packaging used in other products, which are continuing.
The following are examples from 2021:
All of these efforts are part of a broad focus on sustainability
• Our site in Vega Baja, Puerto Rico, increased recycling from 913 tons in 2020 to 985
in Viatris Italy, where colleagues are encouraged to think
tons in 2021, with a total of 85% of waste being recycled.
about ways to work more sustainably as part of their roles
• Across all of our India operations, we recycled more than 2,400 mt of plastic waste, and functions.
and introduced drum shredders at five API units to make waste management more
efficient and reduce associated GHG emissions.
GOAL
Achieve a 50% increase in the number of zero landfill locations by 2030.1
Sources 1From a 2020 baseline.
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 40
AIR EMISSIONS Volatile Organic Compounds and Odor Reduction in China
We are committed to reducing emissions to the air. In 2021, we developed a new Air Emissions Our team at our site in China installed UV photocatalytic oxidation and active carbon
Technical Requirement that expands the tracking of air pollutants, and includes requirements adsorption for the sewage reservoir. Additionally, the site stopped production of flaveric
around pharmaceutical emissions, storage tank system fugitive emissions, visual emissions, to eliminate the usage of ethanol as a solvent, while establishing procedures that require
and odor. Our facilities are equipped with air emission control devices as required to manage a fume hood to be in place for all processes that use solvent in labs.
regulated air pollutants. From particulate matter to sulfur oxides, nitrogen oxides to volatile
Highlights from 2021 at the site included:
organic compounds (VOC), reducing emissions remains a top priority.
• Being recognized by the local government agency focused on environmental protection
and authorities for our environmental efforts.
• Achieving odor reduction of reservoir air emissions.
• Stopping production of flaveric to eliminate the usage of ethanol as a solvent helped
reduce 1.8 tons per year of VOC emissions.
• Reducing VOC emissions from the coating and granulation process by 95%, which
reduced VOCs by more than 3.7 tons per year. Installing active carbon adsorption and
Regenerative Catalytic Oxidation for air emissions from coating and granulation processes.
• Installing active carbon adsorption and Regenerative Catalytic Oxidation for air emissions
from coating and granulation processes.
We are initiating a long-term project across our API facilities in India to enhance control
of VOC emissions. The API facilities handle the bulk of our solvents, and beginning with
a phased approach, more than 100 bulk solvent storage tanks were fitted with vent
condensers or nitrogen blanketing system. The vent condensers are recirculated with
chilled fluid which condenses any residual solvent emissions not only reducing VOC
emissions but also helps in resource conservation. The team will continue to expand
this approach across all API facilities over the next four years.
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 41
Building Healthier UN SDGs:
Good Health and Well-Being (3)
Communities Education for All (4)
Partnerships for the Goals (17)
We seek to foster healthy communities around the world by supporting education, health and “Viatris is proud to support a wide range of community
disease awareness efforts that, in particular, promote empowering patients and creating access organizations worldwide. Here in Ireland, those organizations
to care. We work via in-kind and monetary donations, volunteering our time and talents and often include unsung heroes who provide incredible services
to those in need. ”
engaging with partners to find solutions.
— David Delaney
While we seek to leverage our reach and connectivity as a global company, we also encourage
Head of Policy and Health & Value, Northern & Western
work on a country level to better understand local communities and support them in ways that are
Cluster, Europe, Viatris
truly relevant to their needs. This localized approach has been especially helpful in addressing the
impacts from the COVID-19 pandemic, the human suffering stemming from conflicts, and extreme
weather events in local communities. Local engagement also helps to nurture employee initiatives.
Local efforts include volunteering time and support for programs promoting health, healthy
communities and education.
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 42
HELPING COMMUNITIES WITH URGENT NEEDS • Viatris colleagues in France joined a virtual sport challenge to once again support longtime
partner Association Petits Princes, which helps seriously ill children and teenagers realize
We are committed to helping communities around the world where needs
their dreams. In total, 365 employees walked 36,413,659 steps — raising money towards
are great. As a global healthcare company, our priorities during the
fulfilling the dreams of 10 children.
humanitarian crisis in Ukraine have been protecting the safety and well-
• In Thailand, Viatris volunteers sewed 1,000 breast pads for breast cancer patients recovering
being of our colleagues, supporting impacted communities and doing our
from surgery at three hospitals in collaboration with Sabina, a leader in manufacturing and
best to ensure access to essential medicines, regardless of geography
distributing women’s undergarments.
or circumstance.
• In Italy, we supported the “University for Your Eyes” initiative, which offers a free sight
Our primary focus has been on the immediate safety and protection of our colleagues and
analysis and optometry visits to citizens in the Milan area.
their families and providing support wherever possible, including shelter, financial aid,
resources, tools and other assistance. We are committed to marshaling all available resources • Employees at our Galway plant in Ireland raised more than
to help those colleagues and their families in need as the situation evolves. $20,000 USD for Claddagh Watch, a group of volunteers who
patrol the waterways around Galway city to help prevent
To support affected communities, we have been working with partners such as Direct Relief accidents and suicides.
and UNAIDS to respond to various needs, including supporting medical relief shipments to
• Viatris Portugal joined GRACE, an association dedicated to
Ukraine and refugees fleeing the crisis. In addition, we have partnered with Direct Relief on
corporate social responsibility. Viatris Portugal began its
an employee donation matching program and we committed to supporting local product
partnership by volunteering at the Fruta Feia, or Ugly Fruit,
donation and giving strategies, empowering in-market business leaders to support the project to save produce from being wasted.
broadest impact.
• In South Africa, our local team donated more than $6,000 to
We believe in the importance of access to medicines, especially during challenging times. the Independent Community Pharmacies Association, which
As a healthcare company we are doing all we can to ensure access to essential medicines supported pharmacies adversely affected by distribution
for patients in all impacted areas, according to applicable laws and regulations. slowdowns after riots broke out in in Gauteng and Kwazulu.
• The Viatris IT team volunteered at 412 Food Rescue in the
U.S., recycling cardboard from food donations, transporting food donations to residents
PROMOTING GOOD HEALTH AND
across three counties and updating the group’s merchandise inventory.
COMMUNITY WELFARE
• In Turkey, the team donated 85,000 seeds to support Ecording, a social enterprise that
With patients at the heart of everything we do, many develops sustainable environmental technologies to address climate change and works
of our community programs focus on promoting with women in rural areas who are disproportionately affected by climate change.
good health. Through its unmanned aerial EcoDrone, Ecording delivers seeds to areas that need to
be reforested.
Below is a snapshot from local activities in 2021:
• V iatris colleagues in Korea participated in the
Healthy Aging Campaign’s outreach efforts to help
underprivileged seniors, many of whom are more
isolated than ever due to the pandemic. Volunteers
provided meal boxes, personal hygiene supplies and
handcraft kits for emotional support.
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 43
MEDICINES DONATIONS Empowering a New Generation of Leaders
In 2021, we continued working through a trusted network of partners to donate approximately Viatris provides support to HOBY Youth Leadership, a U.S.
500 million doses of medicine across a variety of therapeutic areas. We collaborated with based global non-profit leadership and service organization.
many long-term partners, including Americares, Direct Relief International and Heart to HOBY was founded in 1958, by actor Hugh O’Brian upon
Heart International Inc. returning from a nine-day mission trip in Gabon, Africa, with
the 1952 Nobel Peace Prize winner, Dr. Albert Schweitzer.
In addition, we:
Dr. Schweitzer instilled in O’Brian a simple belief: “The most
• Supplied 32,000 units of trastuzumab to the Philippines Department of Health for their important thing in education is to teach young people to think
Breast Cancer Medicines Access Program (BCMAP). This volume will be accessible for free for themselves.” In its 64th year, HOBY has now developed and
to 1,070 qualified HER2-positive breast cancer patients all over the country. inspired over 600,000 high-school sophomores to have a positive
impact on the world around them.
• Supported local distribution partner Vingroup in the donation of 500,000 vials of
remdesivir to the Ministry of Health in efforts to provide expedited and affordable access. Each summer, 10,000 students from across the United States
and a dozen countries around the world attend HOBY local, in-state/country seminars
“The disparate effects of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic have
and hundreds continue their leadership development at a World Leadership Congress.
brought attention to significant needs for health systems in
Each student is challenged to identify their personal leadership values and strengths,
medically vulnerable communities worldwide. We’re thankful for
seek to understand and connect with the perspectives of others, build lasting supportive
our partnership with Viatris, which is vital to ensuring that Direct
relationships, and identify and work toward a common, positive purpose.
Relief can help meet growing requests and increasing demand
for humanitarian aid in medically vulnerable communities.”
“I am so grateful to Viatris for believing in the potential of our youth
— D. Thomas Roane and providing the financial support to enable the development of a
Vice President, Corporate Engagement & Strategy, Direct Relief diverse and inclusive pipeline of future leaders. Because of Viatris,
we were able to provide scholarships to students from racially and
economically diverse backgrounds, ensuring more equitable access
SUPPORTING EDUCATION to our empowering programs.”
— Kristen Hoefer
Building back basic school infrastructure and bringing children and young adults back to
CEO HOBY Youth Leadership
education is key in recovering from the COVID-19 pandemic. Supporting access to education
is foundational to empower people worldwide to live healthier lives.
Through a $500,000 donation from Viatris, HOBY has been able to enhance programming
• In the U.S., we continued the STEMCARE® partnership with West Virginia University and
and expand access to over 500 racially, culturally, and ethnically diverse students. These
reached more than 35,000 youth and adults through STEMCARE resource allocation,
scholarships support Viatris’ and HOBY’s shared goal of inclusive leadership, both removing
educator training and other indirect educational events in 2021.
challenges to access and, through diversity, enriching the experience for all students and
• In Turkey, we partnered with Global AI Hub on a joint scholarship program that provides volunteers alike.
100 free online courses about digital technologies in healthcare mainly for women working
The impact of Viatris’ support of HOBY extends far beyond these seminars. As a catalyst
in the field.
for societal engagement, HOBY programs challenge their alumni to volunteer and serve
their communities. Thousands of HOBY alumni, each providing over 100 hours annually
in service, deliver over $10 million in economic value to their communities each year.
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 44
A FOCUS ON COMMUNITIES IN IRELAND SUPPORTING HOUSING FOR U.S. VETERANS AFTER DISASTER STRIKES
Viatris Ireland has a long tradition of supporting local communities. The team supports On Veterans Day 2021 in the U.S., we announced a $1 million donation that will have
approximately 30 charity and community organizations in the country every year. The multi-year impact to SBP, originally called St. Bernard Project, a national U.S.-based not-for-
groups are nominated by Viatris colleagues and include a variety of causes from helping profit organization dedicated to disaster recovery for low-income survivors.
those with mental health challenges to caring for children in need. One of those groups in
The partnership focuses primarily on post-disaster support for low-to-moderate income U.S.
2021 was LauraLynn, Ireland’s children’s hospice, with a mission to provide evidence-based,
veterans with disabilities by rebuilding, repairing and performing modifications on homes.
personalized services to children with palliative care needs, complex care needs or complex
disabilities, and to provide for their families. Low-income veterans, especially those living with disabilities, are often the last to seek help
and many face a high number of barriers, making them among the populations most severely
affected when disasters strike. This can mean prolonged trauma for those who are impacted,
GIVING BACK IN AUSTRALIA
and this is especially true when safe and secure housing is lost.
Our colleagues in Australia are passionate about giving back. Employees can donate through
salary deductions to five Viatris-sponsored charities, and each employee can take up to two
days a year to volunteer at one of Viatris’ sponsored charities or a charity that has special
meaning for them.
“Disasters exacerbate already-existing inequalities, pushing people
to their breaking point. Veterans so often hate asking for help and
frequently prioritize the needs of others over their own. Viatris, as
the Fund’s Founding Champion, has created a pathway to make
it easier for veterans to get the help that they deserve. We are
incredibly grateful for the company’s ongoing support.”
— Zack Rosenberg,
The team also runs a quarterly charity program where employees select a group to support Co-founder and CEO of SBP
through fundraising, with the company matching donations. In 2021, the team supported
Lifeblood, a not-for-profit health service that facilitates the donation of blood, plasma,
transplantation and other biologic products. Colleagues made 168 blood and plasma
donations, equating to approximately 500 lives saved.
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 45
A COMMITMENT TO COMMUNITIES IN INDIA • Conducted extensive training on TB management among health workers in Bahraich to
help strengthen early detection of TB and enhance the ability of caregivers to attend to
We have a large commercial and operations presence in India. In addition to our support
TB patients.
for employees and their families during the pandemic, we also continued our local
• Donated two digital X-ray machines, an ambulance and other medical equipment
support through community welfare, education, health and other programs.
to hospitals in areas including Banganga, Indore, Madya Pradesh and Hyderabad.
Health
In 2021, we continued our work with the affordable cancer care program at Tata
Memorial Center Cancer Institute. The program facilitates mass cancer screenings, early
detection and treatment. The program began in 2020 in six districts in Maharashtra,
and expanded to 11 more districts in 2021. A pilot phase with three other states —
West Bengal, Andrapradesh and Punjab — is underway.
Other health programs in 2021 included the following:
• Partnered with the Institute of Liver Biliary Sciences (ILBS) for the “Healthy Liver,
Healthy Delhi” initiative to create awareness and facilitate early screening and
detection of hepatitis B and C. More than 20,000 people have received free
screening through the program, which offers free mobile liver screenings.
• Donated 40,000 units of the Cu-T based Intrauterine contraceptive devices for
supporting family planning. The devices were donated in Bihar, Rajasthan
and Utter Pradesh to the Foundation of Reproductive Services India (FRHS),
a group that provides essential and quality sexual and reproductive healthcare
services, including contraceptive services to marginalized members of society.
Devices were also donated in Mumbai, Maharashtra and Patna, Bihar, to
Doctors For You (DFY), which focuses on providing medical care to vulnerable
communities and emergency medical aid to people affected by natural
disasters, conflicts and epidemics.
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 46
Community Welfare Education
In 2021, we supported a long-term project to promote food security and We supported a special supplementary education program called Akshayvidya for
sustainable farming practices through organic farming. The proof-of-concept underprivileged and tribal children, run by Ekalavya Foundation. The program provides
project is intended to establish the evidence and build the knowledge needed education to students in school and to those that have dropped out through special
to scale for greater impact. More than 315 farmers participated in the program learning centers built within their communities. The centers offer evening classes
and were encouraged to adopt organic farming practices to improve soil health, with trained tutors. Smartphones are provided for groups of students to facilitate
reduce water usage and air pollution and improve the quality and quantity of continuous learning and monitoring. In all, Viatris is supporting 20 education centers
crops. The program is taking place over 600 acres of farmland in Anneswaram through the program, covering approximately 600 students from various grades for
Panchayath, Devanahalli, Bangalore and Karnataka. one year.
Through the program, model plots are planted on each farmer’s land to demonstrate Other education programs in 2021 included:
the advantages of organic farming. The farmers are introduced to new interventions
• Providing salaries for additional primary school teachers, volunteering to clean
like bio fertilizers and organic pest repellants, the soil is regularly tested and networking
schools and construction of toilet facilities to benefit hundreds of students in
among farmers is encouraged.
several villages.
Other community welfare programs in 2021 included supporting: • Supporting the establishment of the Advanced Instrumentation lab at the
University Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences at Punjab University.
• Cleaning a pond, improving sanitation, desilting an irrigation tank bed and
planting trees in several villages.
• Installing a traffic signal unit and performing garden maintenance in
Nashik, Maharashtra.
• Installing toilet facilities that will benefit about 100 residents in Hyderabad
and providing garbage collection to benefit a military unit in Hyderabad.
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 47
Management
Disclosure and
Performance Data
In this section of the Viatris 2021 Sustainability Report, we present a comprehensive
description of the company’s management, governance and organization of important UNGC 10 Principles
sustainability matters.
HUMAN RIGHTS 6: the elimination of discrimination in
The information presented herein complements the information presented in the preceding
1: B usinesses should support and respect respect of employment and occupation.
chapters. Our intention is to provide additional information of the work and performance of
the protection of internationally
Viatris for our stakeholders. This report has been prepared in accordance with GRI Standards: ENVIRONMENT
proclaimed human rights; and
Core level and references the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) disclosures. 7: Businesses should support
Viatris’ GRI Content Index and SASB Reference Table are presented on p. 82-91. Disclosures in 2: make sure that they are not complicit a precautionary approach to
accordance with the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) are presented in human rights abuses. environmental challenges;
on p. 92. LABOR 8: u ndertake initiatives to promote greater
3: B usinesses should uphold the freedom environmental responsibility; and
of association and the effective
9: encourage the development and
recognition of the right to collective
diffusion of environmentally friendly
bargaining;
technologies.
4: the elimination of all forms of forced
ANTI-CORRUPTION
and compulsory labor;
10: B usinesses should work against
5: t he effective abolition of child labor; and corruption in all its forms, including
extortion and bribery.
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 48
ESG TOPICS PRIORITY ASSESSMENT
As reported in the Viatris 2020 Sustainability Report, in the first part of 2021, we conducted an
assessment of internal and external perspectives on topics potentially pertinent to future ESG-
related areas of focus for Viatris. The assessment was not intended to be, nor does it reflect,
a quantitative evaluation of or commentary on strengths or weaknesses in the noted areas.
It was intended to help inform our future decisions regarding matters relevant to long-term
sustainability and ESG-focused strategies, as well as for purposes of GRI-related reporting.
The assessment aimed to survey the evolving external sustainability and ESG perspectives
across geographies and reflect the issues we believe internally are most relevant given our
newly formed company and our knowledge of our business, operations, and global workforce.
We considered input from external stakeholders and research from other sources, capturing
viewpoints and feedback from customers, partners, investors, non-governmental organizations
(NGOs), employees, community groups and policymakers. Internal perspectives were provided
by functional leaders and internal experts representing key areas of our company and spanning
our geographic footprint.
The following table depicts the full list of topics that were considered in this exercise, while the
matrix indicates the relative degree of external stakeholder interest and potential company
impact as perceived internally for the top-ranked topics.
The priority topics to Viatris relate to our mission, our people and our business, and include:
• Sustainable Access to Medicine, Patient Outcomes and Contribution to
Global Public Health.
• Talent Management, Employee Engagement, Workplace Health and Safety
and Diversity and Inclusion.
• Manufacturing and Distribution, Supply Chain, Regulatory Impact, Climate
Change and Energy and Business Ethics.
Following this work, as noted earlier in the report, we established company-wide goals.
We will continue to evaluate and review external developments to determine, based on our
knowledge of the company, our platforms, our workforce, and the industry, any appropriate
changes to our areas of focus and priority.
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
hgiH
TSERETNI
FO
SAERA
REDLOHEKATS
woL
Sustainable Access to Medicine
Patient Outcomes
Regulatory Impact
Talent Management
Contribution to Global Public Health Manufacturing and Distribution
Workplace Health and Safety
Supply Chain
Diversity and Inclusion
Climate Change and Energy Employee Engagement
Business Ethics
Low POTENTIAL IMPACT ON COMPANY High
Full List of Topics Assessed
Access to Medicine Societal Impact Responsible Business
Manufacturing and Distribution Community Engagement Business Ethics
Product Donations and Impact Corporate Governance
Sustainable Access to Medicines Contribution to Global Data Privacy and Protection
Public Health Ethical Marketing and Promotion
Being a Responsible Local Community Capacity Human Rights
Employer Building Regulatory Impact
Diversity and Inclusion Patient Outcomes Responsible Product
Employee Engagement Development
Talent Management Environmental Stewardship Risk Management
Workplace Health and Safety Climate Change and Energy Supply Chain
Environmental Protection
Product Stewardship
Waste and Water
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 49
ACCESS AND GLOBAL HEALTH
Our Portfolio and Reach 2020 2021 Our Portfolio and Reach 2020 2021
Total number of doses sold >80 billion >80 billion Greater China 100% 100%
Number of molecules >1,400 >1,400 JANZ 98% 98%
Number of countries and territories reached >165 >165 Number of medicines on the WHO list of prequalified products
60 58
(including cross-listed approvals)4
Major therapeutic areas >10 >10
HIV/Aids: 36 34
Coverage percentage of the top 10 causes of death globally 100 100
Reproductive Health 9 9
Coverage percentage of the top 10 causes of death across
low- and lower-middle income countries1 100 100 TB • Global Complex Products6 Quality 6
Total investments in R&D $555.1M $751.1M Hepatitis • Global Clinical and Bioana4lytical Quality 4
• Global Quality Systems/QA IT Technical Quality
Products in development by region2 Malaria 2 2
• Global Quality Investigations and Regulatory Quality
Developed Markets 180 210 Biotherapeutics — Oncology 2 2
• Global Third Party/Affiliate Quality
Emerging Markets 90 70 Influenza • Global Quality Integration1 / Surveillance 1
Greater China 40 30 Number of patents maintained to date* 5,228 3,400
JANZ 45 65
Licenses via the Medicines Patent Pool5 6 7
Products pending approval by region3 Number of countries on the Access to Medicine Foundation
97/106 99/108
list of Access Countries to which Viatris supplies products
Developed Markets 430 530
As part of expanding access to medicine across geographies, in 2021, we:
Emerging Markets 1,200 1,050
Greater China 5 15 • Received >700 global product approvals
• Completed >145 submissions in >120 different countries, including >90 products
JANZ 45 10
in Emerging Markets
Customer service levels
• Made >550 regulatory filings, which includes >330 individual market submissions
for Emerging Markets
Developed Markets 93% 93%
• Completed 10 drug master filings
Emerging Markets 98% 96%
*Including active and pending patents Sources 1WHO: The top 10 causes of death
2N umbers have been rounded and refer to unique molecule + dosage form by segment
3Numbers have been rounded, (Molecule + form + Country)
4As of March 11, 2022
5Medicines Patent Pool
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 50
Ensuring Quality and Patient Safety in Processes and Products • Products risk assessment
Protecting patients and consumer health by ensuring the quality and safety of our products • Regular compliance monitoring and communication
is at the heart of how we operate across our network. Every step of our development,
• Incident investigation, corrective and preventive action
manufacturing and monitoring processes — from product development to sourcing of
• Standardized document control and change management
raw materials to producing and distributing finished dosage forms - is grounded in this
commitment. At Viatris, we take pride in doing what is right, not what’s easy, every time. • Compilation, trending and review of key quality metrics
Quality Management
Quality Governance and Organization
We maintain a quality infrastructure at the global level that includes extensive experience
and expertise, robust and comprehensive Global Quality Policies that establish uniform The Head of Global Quality reports to the President and the following functions are
requirements for fundamental processes and controls within the Quality Management within the overall Global Quality structure:
System (QMS), as well as Global Quality IT systems, which are implemented and designed
to establish industry best practices and consistency throughout our global network. • Global Operations Audit • Global Complex Products Quality
• Global Learning and Development • Global Clinical and Bioanalytical Quality
Our operations are supported by robust quality systems and standards and processes which
are designed to ensure product quality and patient safety. These programs are also designed • Global Quality Compliance • Global Quality Systems/QA IT Technical Quality
to ensure that our operations continue to remain in a state of sustained compliance with
• Global OSD and API Quality • Global Quality Investigations and Regulatory Quality
statutory and regulatory requirements, such as current Good Manufacturing Practices
• Global Injectables Quality • Global Third Party/Affiliate Quality
(cGMP), Good Pharmacovigilance Practices (GPvP) and Good Clinical Practices (GCP) for all
markets that they serve. • Global Dermatologics Quality • Global Quality Integration/ Surveillance
We apply relevant quality guidelines to our Global Quality Policies, including: Eudralex, Falsified
We continuously evolve our quality organization to ensure alignment with the business
Medicines Directive, ICH Quality Guidelines, WHO GMP, Food and Drug Administration Safety
operations and to enhance compliance with applicable standards. Quality leadership was
and Innovation Act and the EU Excipient Risk Assessment for ascertaining GMP for excipients
restructured to facilitate broader surveillance functions and to continue to strengthen
of medicinal products for human use. We use a Regulatory Intelligence and Knowledge
compliance. Existing global quality resources are embedded within the operational verticals to
Management Dissemination Program to better inform, evaluate and implement regulatory
align closely with the business units and drive consistency across the sites. These enhancements
updates, industry trends and internal knowledge across the Viatris network.
promote closer connectivity among operational leaders and lead to improved product quality,
Our QMS and Product Safety and Risk Management System maintain standard operating supply continuity and patient access.
procedures for quality-related core components, including but not limited to:
As part of our integration of the two legacy companies, we also have further enhanced the
Global Quality Manual, taking best practices from each legacy company. We also enhanced
• Managerial oversight and responsibility
consistency across more than 20 global policies and procedures, including, but not limited to,
• Ongoing and continuous training the policies governing investigations, self-inspections, APR process, data integrity, Field Alert
Reporting and Risk Management.
• Frequent internal/external audits
• Testing practice and compendial compliance
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 51
Training for Continuous Improvement Quality Monitoring in Our Operations
Our Global Learning and Development program provides comprehensive and effective training Our Global Operations Audit program relies primarily on oversight by a specially trained team
to assure access to and delivery of knowledge to global operations personnel in coordination of internal global experts, augmented and supported by independent third parties. The global
with vertical and site based training programs. This program coordinates and standardizes internal audit program is a key component of our oversight and monitoring of the quality
training requirements, content, techniques and training delivery methods to continually performance across our network. The internal audits are designed to proactively evaluate
strengthen our corporate learning culture as part of Global Training policy requirement. compliance against the GQM/ GQP and global cGMP regulations.
We also provide a regulatory intelligence program that provides personnel access to current
global regulations, publications and industry trends. • Dedicated audit leads are assigned to quality operations within each vertical to participate
in all internal audits within that vertical. Site and vertical leadership collaborate to
Our Global Learning Development program ensures that role- specific and periodic
ensure continued, robust processes and to periodically evaluate existing processes and
cGMP training programs are compliant with regulatory requirements both regionally
risk mitigation mechanisms. Internal audits are performed on a regular basis for each
and globally. cGMP training is conducted on an annual basis and, as needed, more frequently
production/API site as well as our distribution, packaging and laboratory sites.
in accordance with regulatory requirements at the site and/or global level.
• Internal sites are required to take appropriate corrective and preventative actions in
In addition to training on the theory and practice of cGMP, we utilize a curriculum- based response to any observations, with set timelines for implementation.
approach to ensure all analysts, operators, and other personnel are fully trained based upon
• Quality Councils at each site oversee and monitor key performance indicators, track
their defined job descriptions and assigned duties. The curricula are specifically designed for
quality incidents, identify trends and have the authority to escalate incidents to senior
each job description.
quality leadership.
• At the global level, senior quality leadership routinely reviews and monitors key
performance indicators from each vertical/site and their respective corrective/preventive
Procedural and cGMP training is required for all personnel whose duties are in any
actions for incidents and trends.
way associated with the manufacturing, packaging, processing, holding, or testing of
products or whose duties require them to enter manufacturing areas or laboratories, In recent years we streamlined the global internal audit program to include expedited
as well as any other personnel whose activities could affect the quality of the product. timelines for issuance of observations and increased site leadership engagement to ensure
Personnel working in areas where contamination is a hazard, such as clean areas, immediate remediation of identified observations. We further increased focus on global
sterile areas or areas where highly active, toxic, infectious, or sensitizing materials investigations oversight, third-party management, and surveillance across our sites.
are handled, are given additional specific training. Training in cGMP is conducted by
Following each internal audit, the inspected site is required to submit a corrective and
qualified individuals to assure that employees remain familiar with the specific
preventive action (CAPA) plan to remediate any identified discrepancies. These CAPAs are
cGMP requirements applicable to them.
submitted to our Global CAPA Management team for review and approval. Furthermore, any
CAPA from critical and/ or major observations are reviewed and verified for completion by the
Global Operations Audit Team.
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 52
Quality Risk Assessment Ensuring a High-Quality Supply Chain
Proactive risk assessment is central to our approach to ensuring quality. We apply the
To help ensure the integrity of our supply chain, a highly experienced Viatris committee
principles outlined in International Conference of Harmonization (ICH) Q9 Quality Risk
undertakes a rigorous review of suppliers and third parties prior to their selection for the
Management, as well as those in ICH Q10 Pharmaceutical Quality System.
supply of active pharmaceutical ingredients and drug products. After selection, those suppliers
and third parties execute an agreement that specifically details our expectations and right
Quality Culture
to conduct regular on-site audits to ensure compliance regulations, applicable regulatory
Employees are provided training on quality culture to ensure personnel have a clear reporting requirements, and allow access to all records related to the supplied products,
understanding of our commitment to quality. In 2021 we kicked off a Quality Campaign among other requirements.
with the following focus:
• To support external suppliers in meeting quality standards, we may place company
• Excellence via Quality: We must all do what’s right, not what’s easy. We focus on Quality personnel at the site of a supplier to engage, monitor, and mentor the site
getting our work done right — the first time — we follow our robust processes and pay team and foster continued quality compliance.
close attention to detail. And we understand the science.
• We conduct routine audits to assess the strength and performance of the QMS.
• Integrity via Quality: If you see something that isn’t right, speak up. Our reputation Frequency is based upon cyclical audit requirements by facility type, historical
depends on it. We are all accountable for operating with integrity and empowered to regulatory inspection performance, and key product launches.
take action to do what is right.
• In 2021, in response to the pandemic, we instituted a virtual audit program that enabled
• Accountability via Quality: At Viatris, we are all accountable to operate with a quality- us to effectively conduct audits and remain in compliance with regulatory auditing
first mindset. Our commitment to quality gives patients the assurance they need to be requirements. In total, 612 GMP, 69 GCP and 23 pharmacovigilance (PV) audits were
empowered to live healthier at every stage of life. conducted by the company’s global Operations Audit team at our facilities and suppliers.
• Proactivity via Quality: We are proactive and seek to address issues before they become
External contractors and suppliers approved for business with us are recorded in an internal
problems. We collaborate with others to generate solutions and implement them quickly.
global database which encompasses a mixture of third-party manufacturers (sterile and non-
• Reliability via Quality: Focus on simplification — overly complex processes can lead sterile), third-party packagers, third-party laboratories, distribution centers, miscellaneous
to mistakes. We never settle for “good enough.” Business continuity is enabled by a service providers, API suppliers (sterile and nonsterile), excipient suppliers and packaging
commitment to quality. component suppliers.
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 53
Working with Health Authorities Potential new safety-relevant information is assessed and evaluated through our corporate
safety governance structure and important new information is communicated in a timely
We constantly review our products, processes and facilities throughout our network and
manner to regulatory authorities, healthcare professionals and patients.
work closely with external health authorities to ensure transparency regarding emerging
information, including shortages, adverse-event reporting of other manufacturers’ products, To manage safety of a diversified and complex product portfolio — made up of prescription
development of new scientific and testing criteria and evolving regulatory and manufacturing medicines, over-the-counter medicines, combination products, medical devices, food
expectations everywhere we operate. We continuously learn from these interactions as supplements, cosmetics - we have highly skilled and trained cross functional teams of medical
scientific, technology and regulatory expectations continue to evolve. and scientific professionals who review and report our risk and benefit assessments to
regulatory authorities worldwide.
• The health authority inspections provide extensive external certification of the company
sites and our suppliers and provide authorization for further production and marketing. • In 2021, the company submitted more than 350,000 individual safety reports and
more than 1,500 aggregate reports to health authorities and business partners with a
• We are making progress to resolve the identified observations regarding Viatris’ active
compliance rate of over 99%.
FDA Warning Letters.
• The company currently has more than 310 risk management plans and associated
• In 2021, more than 90 health authority inspections were conducted across our facilities.
interventional measures designed, where required, to help ensure our products are
The COVID pandemic has had an impact on this number compared to previous years.
used safely and effectively.
Mechanisms like periodic meetings of the Joint Pharmacovigilance Governance Committee for
oversight of new safety and compliance matters and service delivery teams for the operational
Notable International Health Authority Inspections in 2021 include: FDA (USA), EMA,
matters have played a vital role for the Viatris Product Safety & Risk Management department
HPRA (Ireland), MHRA (United Kingdom), TGA (Australia) and WHO.
to maintain oversight of the safety profile and regulatory compliance for legacy Upjohn
products, managed in Pfizer’s system, during the transition period.
As part of our PV system, the benefit-risk profile of all our products is continuously monitored
Patient and Product Safety and assessed, ensuring safety information about our products is provided to regulatory
Our Product Safety & Risk Management (PSRM) function has a Pharmacovigilance (PV) system authorities, healthcare professionals and patients in a timely manner. Also, PSRM is engaged
with robust processes described in 120+ global Policies, Standard Operating Procedures and in a number of Post Authorization Safety Studies (PASS) to ensure the safety of approved
Work Instructions, altogether ensuring patient care and safety in relation to the use of our products is monitored continuously with effective risk minimization measures.
products during both their development and once placed on the market.
Our PV system operates in accordance with global Policies, Standard Operating Procedures
We are in the final stages of completing the integration of legacy Mylan and legacy Upjohn and Work Instructions to ensure managerial responsibility and standardized processing for
PV systems into one Viatris global pharmacovigilance system by ensuring appropriate all activities. The procedures are continuously monitored for appropriateness and updated to
policies, procedures, resources, IT infrastructure and agreements are in place to meet global allow oversight and PV governance. In late 2021, relevant procedural documents have been
pharmacovigilance requirements. updated to meet the requirement of new EU Clinical Trial Regulations implemented in
January 2022.
Global PV governance committees, such as the Corporate Product Safety Committee and the
Pharmacovigilance System Oversight Committee, are responsible for periodic and ad-hoc Key activities are monitored for performance and compliance against standards, targets and
evaluation of new safety-relevant information and facilitates full oversight of compliance and thresholds. The PV system is subject to both internal and external audits and inspections
the performance of the Viatris PV system. by regulatory authorities from around the world. The company’s compliance and deviation
monitoring mechanisms are in place for any observations resulting from audits and inspections
to ensure they are thoroughly analyzed for root causes and that impact is addressed.
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 54
As appropriate, corrective and preventive actions required are tracked until effective Product Testing
implementation of compliance with worldwide pharmacovigilance regulations. All processes
All ingredients used in our products undergo rigorous testing to assure they meet registered
are designed to be compliant with the EU Good Pharmacovigilance Practices (GVP) or, if
specifications. For all products, as regulated by cGMP, we conduct extensive testing, including
applicable, stricter regulations anywhere in the world.
raw material, intermediate and finished product. As required by applicable regulations, we also
The internal audit schedule relating to pharmacovigilance activities is based on a robust risk conduct post-distribution stability testing.
assessment with all PV system processes in scope. The frequency of the audits is normally
Product Recall Management
annually for global processes and global service providers and approximately once every
three years or less for affiliates based on risk assessment. Effective quality and product safety management systems are designed to detect and
manage potential risks. These programs may result in product recalls as part of their
Our Product Safety & Risk Management function is a key component of our PV system and
design. Recalls are largely initiated by a pharmaceutical company as a precautionary
participates in all internal and external audits.
measure in cases of possible or actual risk to the quality and safety of the product, and/
In 2021, in addition to the 23 internal PV audits commissioned by our Global Operations or risk to the patient. Although there is no harmonized international standard between
Auditing team, there were eight external PV audits by business partners and six PV countries on what constitutes a recall, Viatris has internal global requirements that each
inspections by national health authorities. No critical findings were identified in these company site must maintain a written procedure to govern the recall of products based
audits or inspections in 2021. upon health authority regulatory requirements in the territories in which our products are
provided. A product recall serves to safeguard the health of patients — demonstrating our
We conduct training that complies with the company’s policy on PV Training Standards,
responsibility and the efficacy of the Quality Management System (QMS). It is relevant to
which defines training curriculum, frequency, effectiveness measurements, documentation
point out that the type and size of a product portfolio, along with other factors, may impact
and other requirements. Employees who are part of our PV system are assigned professional
the number of recalls across companies.
development training courses based on individual experience. In 2021, we conducted the
mandatory annual Basic PV-training for our approximately 37,000 colleagues. Conducting Responsible Clinical Development
In our continuous effort to innovate and enhance our system, we continued our efforts in Clinical operations, including clinical trials, are key to advancing access to medicine for
2020 to further explore the use of emerging technologies, such as cloud-based solutions, patients across the world. We are committed to conducting clinical trials in an ethical way
automation, artificial intelligence (AI), data analytics and digital communication interfaces and to promoting patient safety and protection of patient rights throughout the study lifecycle.
in our areas of safety-case report management, upgrading of our global safety database Our global program for clinical research and applicable standard operating procedures are
(ARGUS) and safety surveillance with objective to potentially enhance our product safety designed to adhere to international best practice and good clinical practice (GCP) as defined
evaluation, communication and risk mitigation capabilities. in the Declaration of Helsinki and the International Council for Harmonisation of Technical
Requirements for Pharmaceuticals for Human Use (ICH) framework.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, the PSRM function developed and implemented our
Pharmacovigilance Business Continuity Plan, which outlines a comprehensive approach In 2021, we continued research activities across diverse regions in which patients may
to risk management, staffing and safety systems, among other items, to ensure continued experience various health care and/or economic challenges. Our research encompassed varied
operations during unplanned disruptions. This helped minimize the potential impact to therapeutic areas, including mental health disorders, dermatologic conditions, ocular maladies,
patients and HCPS. allergies, and pulmonary diseases, among others.
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 55
We conduct clinical trials in many regions of the world as part of the process to eventually Global Standards
make treatments available to patients. To support the geographic expansion of products and
Regardless of where the trials are conducted and whether they are performed in-house or by a
bring more products to more patients with diverse needs, the number of trials in new settings
qualified third party, the company’s global standard operating procedures apply with the aim to
has increased. Moving forward, Viatris will continue to work to include patient representatives
ensure the robust adherence to applicable policies, procedures and regulatory requirements.
of the regions where approval is sought, focusing on improving patient access to needed
We develop clinical study protocols for every clinical trial, which contain criteria and procedures
therapies globally.
for the conduct of each trial. The procedures for clinical site assessment are developed prior to the
Diversity in Clinical Trials selection of investigators. The company maintains procedures that require ongoing evaluation of a
clinical site’s conduct of clinical studies from study initiation through study closeout. We work with
Viatris supports FDA’s guidance on Diversity in Clinical Trials and works to include diverse
our partners to ensure that clinical investigators are carefully screened prior to being selected to
patient populations for global studies that will be submitted for approval to FDA and other
participate in a clinical study and require that clinical investigators conduct careful screening and
health authorities. Considerations for diversity include both demographic criteria (e.g., gender,
selection of patients consistent with the written study protocols.
race, ethnicity) as well as non-demographic criteria (e.g. co-morbidities, organ dysfunction, the
extremes of weight range). Viatris is committed to working with health authorities to enhance We also require that all clinical studies receive review and approval from institutional review
safety, scientific rigor and diversity in our clinical trials. boards/independent ethics committees (IRB/EC). These committees evaluate and provide
approval and ongoing review of clinical trials with a primary goal of ensuring patient rights and
Health authorities across the globe have called for increased pediatric research to support
safety. The review of each clinical study must be properly documented for every clinical site
accurate labelling for pediatric populations. Viatris complies with applicable GCP requirements to
participating in a clinical study for the company. IIRB/EC documentation of review/approval
ensure that pediatric clinical trial requirements are completed with a focus on patient safety
must be available for all clinical sites that participate in a clinical study. Additionally, health
and integrity of clinical trials data.
authorities may place clinical study activities on hold should there be concerns that arise that
warrant such action.
Our range of clinical experience and scale includes: 27,000 study participants across
The company’s governance councils, quality committees and clinical development teams
9 therapeutic areas; 800 PKPD / adhesion & human factor studies with over 30,000
oversee the conduct of clinical trials, including regular monitoring of ongoing trials, and
healthy volunteers; and more than 80 clinical development and post marketing
partner with internal and external experts and investigational sites to promote patient safety
programs inclusive of Phase I, Phase II/III and Phase IV.
and data integrity across our clinical development programs. In addition, we use quality
councils, governance boards and independent data monitoring committees when appropriate
to support quality, safety and protection of participants in our clinical development programs.
Management and Oversight
Our standard operating procedures specifically address the requirements associated with the
The Head of Global Clinical Operations reports to the Chief Medical Officer, who reports to the development of Investigator Brochures, Clinical Protocols and Informed Consent Forms in
company’s President. Our Global Quality Management System (QMS) is at the core of our clinical order to adhere to applicable regulations. A cross-functional development and review process
investigations. It includes procedures on internal processes associated with drug development is incorporated into the procedures to ensure that experts in various functions have input into
as well as processes for overseeing and auditing outsourced activities completed by our vendor the design and approval of these documents. These documents provide clinical investigators
partners. Dedicated independent members of our Quality team conduct periodic assessments and with sufficient background on the investigational product to protect the safety of research
audits across our operations and at our vendors. Any potential or actual incidents are managed participants, that the clinical study is scientifically rigorous and that participants are well-
through clear processes and escalated to senior management as appropriate. Our QMS requires informed of the potential risks and benefits, study goals, procedures, and their critical role in
ongoing review of procedures to ensure continued alignment with GCP regulations and clinical research. All employees involved in this aspect of a clinical trial undergo training for
guidance documents. this purpose.
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 56
Informed Consent implementation of innovative clinical trial solutions from end to end, as well as globally aligned
systems and processes. Our priorities will always be patient safety, regulatory and protocol
The company’s standard operating procedure governing the informed consent process is part of the
compliance, and data integrity.
QMS. It includes detailed procedures regarding the development, review, approval, implementation
and confirmation of the informed consent process for adult and pediatric trials. Animal Studies
• Informed consent documents are written in a manner that allows potential trial We do not conduct animal testing unless it is required by national regulation. We are committed
participants, regardless of reading skills and local language, the ability to make an to the “3 R” approach (Replacement, Reduction and Refinement) with respect to ethical animal
informed decision that considers the potential risks and benefits of trial participation. testing. Facilities performing animal testing on our behalf are required to comply with regional
• Local independent ethics committees review and approve informed consent forms prior scientific procedures for laboratory animal science. These facilities use and/or are approved
to patient participation in a clinical study. by the Association for Assessment and Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care (AAALAC). Our
Global Operations Audit team performs regular audits on entities and facilities involved in animal
• The clinical investigator ensures that patients understand the informed consent document
testing to ensure compliance.
prior to participation in the clinical study.
Promoting Product Security and Fighting Falsified Medicine
• As part of adhering to GCP, trial participants are provided instructions for contacting
clinical site staff to address questions and concerns during the course of the clinical trial. To mitigate the risks from counterfeit products and protect the security of products and safety
Site staff are likewise provided company clinical development team contacts who are of patients, we have a formal infrastructure to support oversight of product security and guide
available to provide support as needed. applicable efforts. Our Product Integrity Coordination Committee consists of leaders from
Compliance, Quality, Regulatory, Medical Affairs and Security. The company’s Product Security
Risk Management in Clinical Development
team conducts an annual risk assessment of the portfolio to determine those products
The QMS provides procedures on assessing potential risks associated with the various aspects of which may be at a higher risk for counterfeiting or diversion activity. This assessment takes
clinical development, such as study design, vendor selection, site selection and patient populations. into consideration several aspects including therapeutic category, dosage type, regulatory
The application of data analytics supports efficient trial management and oversight. concerns, medical affairs concerns, and previous incident history. Products with higher levels
of risk are given priority attention when it comes to analysis and market monitoring. We also
Trial Data Transparency use intelligence gathered from open market analysis to prioritize risk.
The company’s QMS addresses the publication of clinical trial data in publicly accessible We conduct investigations when there is suspicion of counterfeit or at-risk products and
registries, as required by global regulations to promote transparency. We publish results of to support health authorities and law enforcement investigations. In addition to internal
applicable clinical trials in publicly accessible registries such as www.clinicaltrials.gov, https:// resources, we collaborate with external stakeholders such as online sales platforms, platforms
eudract.ema.europa.eu, and others. As part of complying with the GCP, we follow the Food as needed to further identify and prevent the distribution of counterfeit products.
and Drug Administration Amendments Act (FDAA) 801 and the Final Rule requirements for
We have controls to guard against theft and diversion of controlled substances and operate a
disclosure and results posting in the U.S. and are following the EU Clinical Trial Directive (EC)
system to identify suspicious orders of controlled substances.
No. 001/20/EC in the EU. When the Clinical Trial Regulation EU No. 536/2014 goes into effect,
we will comply with that regulation. We have a cross-functional team including members from Compliance, Customer Relations,
Controlled Substance Monitoring, Global Security, Distribution Center, Regulatory Legal, and
The company also maintains procedures that describe a scientifically rigorous process for the
Regulatory Affairs that works to operate our strong programs designed to detect and prevent
preparation and dissemination of scientific articles addressing the results of clinical trials to
diversion within the supply chain. This cross-functional team has established strong partnerships
ensure that HCPs and patients have access to information on the results of clinical trials.
with custom agents, local and federal law enforcement, and state and local licensing. At the same
Moving forward, Viatris Global Clinical Operations will continue to work to transform the time, we take steps to assure that patient care is not interrupted by disruptions in the flow of
clinical trials process through new ways of working and process optimization through the medication to our customers and patients across the globe.
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 57
Our suspicious order monitoring program includes for example: a group of multinational pharmaceutical supply chain stakeholders who have a common
interest in advancing global alignment of drug serialization and tracing requirements to
• Experienced compliance team
harmonize various standards among countries.
• Dedicated suspicious order monitoring team
Serialization efforts include technology that uniquely numbers each pack and places a
• Data and analytical programs serialization mark, known as a 2D data matrix, on products. We work internally and externally
(with contract manufacturers) to ensure that products made for patients include these
• Customer due diligence
identifying marks. Eventually, the serialization process will leverage aggregation, which places
• Education and training
a unique code on shipping packages of our products. This code will associate data for each
• On-going engagement with state and federal regulators packaged product.
Once products are serialized, our work continues. Large amounts of data created by
In addition, we also have a dedicated product diversion program, which encompasses
serialization must be managed, maintained and reported to authorities or trading partners.
anonymous reporting mechanisms, which together with our suspicious order monitoring
Shipments to customers will also include serialization data. This new way of conducting
systems, supports risk mitigation.
business is driving the digital supply chain with emphasis on data and product integrity.
Falsified medicine – medicine that is sold as authorized, authentic medicine but in fact contains
For global manufacturers the challenges with serialization are requirements that vary by markets.
ingredients of poor or toxic quality or dosage – continues to be an issue for the pharmaceutical
Various versions of track and trace and endpoint authentication have emerged around the world,
industry. We have made significant investments in packaging and information technology to
and we are working hard to meet these requirements to ensure access to high-quality,
further enhance our ability to detect and prevent the distribution of counterfeit products.
affordable, and authentic medications to ensure patient safety and compliance with global
By lowering the likelihood that falsified products will enter the supply chain, we are helping to
serialization regulations.
ensure the integrity of distributed products and continued access to high-quality medicine.
Integration of legacy Upjohn products into Viatris’ serialization architecture progressed in
The company has global policies to govern validation, operations, serialization and product
2021 and will continue in 2022.
security. New and updated procedures have also been implemented across all manufacturing
sites to drive consistency in packaging, management, master data and distribution of serialized Ensuring Reliable Supply Chains
product. Among these are processes to track and trace serialized products. An internal product
safety group assists in monitoring the supply chain to help ensure it is not breached. Maintaining a reliable supply of pharmaceutical products is always critical, but even more so –
and often more challenging — in the midst of a pandemic. As an essential business, Viatris has
Serialization taken action to avoid supply chain disruptions for critical medicines.
Serialization is a process that helps companies obtain valuable information about the products We rely on our suppliers and business partners to deliver high- quality, affordable and
they sell, and where they are made and shipped. It is required by a myriad of government accessible products to our customers and ultimately to patients. In addition to robust
regulations that require pharmaceutical companies to track their products along the supply procedures and controls, maintaining good relationships helps us to reduce risk and ensure
chain and verify their authenticity. The goal of serialization is to ensure that medicines a high-quality and reliable supply as well as advance on our sustainability practices. The strong
reaching consumers are not counterfeit, stolen or contaminated. Our quality, regulatory and relationships with logistics partners were especially valuable in addressing the volatile changes
serialization teams work to ensure that serialization requirements for all countries are met. in demands amid the pandemic.
In doing so, the company works closely with industry groups such as the RxGPS Alliance,
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 58
Global, diverse and flexible supply chains are key to timely and affordable access to medicine. We have a Rapid Response Advanced Planning system, which is a state-of-the-art technology
We were able to maintain a global service customer level of 90% during the pandemic, in part for supply chain planning and management. The program enables key stakeholders to
thanks to our ability to assess stock daily and move products from one region to another be closely connected across our global operations. It enables us to update and share
based on needs and availability. information in real time, allowing us to leverage capacities and resources across key
functions such as commercial, supply chain, warehousing and manufacturing. We look
Our approximately 40 manufacturing sites across more than five continents, combined
out over a 24-month horizon and plan supply to meet both the forecast and safety stock
with our global supply chain network and the facilities of the many partners with whom
requirements to buffer against any potential fluctuations in demand or supply. In 2021,
we collaborate on manufacturing, development, supply and logistics, offer a worldwide,
the supply chain team partnered with commercial teams to better understand customer
strategically located network of robust size and scope.
requirements and further improve forecast accuracy. Doing so helps us plan production
We have approximately 600 third parties that enhance our internal capacity and capabilities. and reduces the risk of excess stock.
From an API point of view, we are vertically integrated on many key products, and we have
Forging Strong Supplier Relationships
built long-term strategic partnerships with our API suppliers to mitigate disruption.
Strong relationships, a global, diverse, flexible and transparent supply chain, and well-
We are one of the world’s largest producers of APIs, providing them to customers in more than
established processes enabled Viatris to maintain reliable supply and address volatile demands
100 countries. We are the leading producer of API used in generic ARVs, which treat HIV/AIDS.
and urgent patient needs. Recent events caused volatility and supply chain distribution in
We also produce API for products in the following areas: antibacterial; central nervous system
general, proving the value of having good relationships with our partners. The Viatris Supplier
agents; antihistamines/antiasthmatics; cardiovascular, antivirals; antidiabetics; antifungals; and
Relationship Management program focuses on preferred suppliers to mitigate risk and
proton pump inhibitors.
enhance long-term strategic partnerships.
Approximately half of our API comes from India and China, and the other half from North
Expectations from key stakeholders about our management of key sustainability matters in
America, Europe, and emerging markets. In India, we have 15 manufacturing facilities located
our own operation as well as in our external supply chain are rapidly evolving. Our continued
in seven different states, which mitigates the risk of disruption in any given part of the country.
commitment to work more closely with our key partners in the external supply chain will
• More than 20 countries supply top 100 products from nearly 80 different locations. Many help us meet these expectations and be a Partner of Choice® in building more resilient and
products registered at multiple sites offers risk mitigation and flexibility to meet demand sustainable supply chains.
• 50% of top 100 products dual sourced for API and/or finished product Supplier Code of Conduct
• >20 countries supply API for top 100 products Our Supplier Code of Conduct provides guidance for doing business with us. The code
references international conventions underpinning the UN Global Compact, the Women’s
For Europe, our finished dosage form facilities are supported by five different countries, to
Empowerment Principles and the CEO Water Mandate. Viatris is a signatory of all three.
mitigate risk of disruption. Viatris’ global supply chain is strategically designed to support our
The code is an important policy tool in our work to enhance supplier relationships, part of
business and to protect the quality and safety of our diverse and increasingly complex products.
mitigating supply chain risks and raising awareness on responsible practices.
We are continuously monitoring inventory levels of our raw materials and dosage forms.
Designed to reach more patients with more solutions when and where they need them, our
regional supply sites are often in close proximity to our key markets and utilize demand and
supply data to leverage capabilities and create efficiency and flexibility across our operations.
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 59
Building out Sustainable Sourcing • Partnerships and communication
Our sourcing vision is to serve as: • Monitoring, reporting and continuous improvements
• Integrator of social, ethical and environmental parameters into Viatris Sourcing Practices,
Partnerships and collaboration are essential for continued progress and impact. Viatris joined
Standards & Strategies
the PSCI in 2021, to benefit from joint principles and to help promote collectively responsible
• Partner of Choice® supply chain management and better conditions across the industry. By partnering with PSCI,
• Catalyst for supply resilience ensuring access to more markets and patients worldwide we also hope to contribute to finding synergies and enhance efficiencies across our supply
chains, ultimately allowing us to allocate resources to the mission of creating sustainable
As part of the integration work that continued in 2021, we took the opportunity to review our access to high-quality medicine.
governance and programs on sustainable sourcing. New members joined our Council for
Sustainable Sourcing to better reflect the new company and to further facilitate ownership
across key functions. The council includes members from Viatris’ vertical and sourcing The Pharmaceutical Supply Chains Initiative (PSCI) Is a nonprofit business membership
leadership, EHS and CSR leadership, Quality and Compliance. organization with a vision for excellence in safety, environmental and social outcomes
for the global pharmaceutical and healthcare supply chain. The purpose is to bring
This group will continue to:
together members to define, establish and promote responsible supply chain practices,
• Provide guidance and direction for sustainable sourcing human rights, environmental sustainability, and responsible business.
• Develop governance, practice and reporting of sustainable sourcing
• Instill the culture of sustainable sourcing within sourcing teams
Mitigating Supply Chain Risk
• Set annual sustainable sourcing goals and objectives
We have a robust due diligence process to better understand supplier capabilities and ensure
• Develop, implement and align with enterprise policies and metrics from
their ability to comply with regulatory and compliance requirements. As part of de-risking the
a sustainable sourcing perspective
supply chain, we also have a process for dedicated sustainability risk assessment based on the
• Continue to expand our focus on green procurement. PSCI principles. For the latter, we are including suppliers in a phased approach.
We apply robust and proactive risk mitigation programs with current suppliers and for
In 2021, significant efforts went into further expanding our program on sustainable sourcing,
qualifying alternate suppliers. We monitor performance through reporting, trend analysis
leveraging the strengths and experiences from our legacy companies. Areas of focus included:
and consistent business review meetings, and maintain escalation and cross-functional
• Updating a new Supplier Code of Conduct for Viatris, reflective of our membership in the issue management processes. Sourcing teams routinely meet with suppliers to review the
Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI) performance of supply and create action plans to address identified risks. For our third-party
finished-dose formulation suppliers, we maintain an end-to-end product management approach.
• Developing new standards for EHS, labor and ethics assessment of external suppliers
Source Selection
• Scaling up the number of suppliers included in Viatris’ sustainability and risk assessment
procedures Source selection is a key sourcing process for Direct Materials to ensure vendors meet our
minimum standards for quality, cost and compliance. In 2021, we continued to expand our
• Proceeding with the supplier assessments for the AMR IA Framework on Responsible
focus in this area to include global EHS in the process. Key vendors of strategic brands were
Manufacturing
assessed against PSCI principles.
• Source selection for Direct Materials
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 60
Supplier Diversity in the U.S. We have been actively engaged in drug shortage task forces initiated by health authorities
to identify potential solutions to minimize shortages. We are also working with a variety of
Promoting DE&I goes beyond our colleagues and serving patients. Advancing how we consider
stakeholders to find a holistic and long-term solution to ensure continued supply and access
DE&I in our business dealings is part of helping to create more equal and resilient communities.
to medicines.
In the U.S., the Supplier Diversity Program supports small businesses and businesses owned by
Distribution
minorities, women and veterans. We are committed to continue to build relationships with small
and diverse businesses. The company’s products make their way to patients through a variety of distribution channels
and intermediaries, and local laws and customs give rise to different types of pharmaceutical
We monitor spending and provide access to databases featuring diverse suppliers to promote
markets (distribution, tender, substitution and prescription). The customers we work with include
these businesses. Our senior sourcing members meet quarterly to review achievements related
retail pharmacies; specialty pharmacies; wholesalers and distributors; payers, insurers and
to supplier diversity, and we continue to make program adjustments as we seek to expand our
governments; and institutions such as hospitals, among others. We work closely with them and
efforts in this area.
other important collaborators, including NGOs, to help ensure the most efficient distribution of
Tackling Medicine Shortages products possible.
Drug shortages are a challenge across the globe, with several causes that are in some Supporting Appropriate Use of Medications
instances very complex. This has been especially true amid the COVID-19 pandemic as
Helping patients use medicines appropriately and adhere to prescriptions are crucial factors in
countries closed their borders and enforced lockdowns, requiring increased collaboration
improving health and well-being around the world. We promote the appropriate use of medicines
with industry and governments to mitigate the impact on patients and find solutions.
and have several initiatives aimed at educating patients on medical conditions and ways to
The constraints of the pandemic have added to an already strained system, where global better manage them. We support online portals, websites and mobile applications that offer
demand for medicine is increasing significantly, putting extra pressure on manufacturers and features ranging from tracking symptoms to reminding patients about refilling prescriptions.
supply chains to produce and supply products around the globe. Global supply chain disruptions In addition, some digital solutions provide real-time guidance for healthcare providers to help
are continuing, exacerbated by global unrest and inflation. At the same time, governments them understand a patient’s overall status. We support individual dose dispensing across several
all over the world are facing the urgent need to manage spending amid increasingly tight European countries to increase therapeutic adherence and reduce medication errors, which is
budget constraints. particularly important for elderly patients taking multiple medications. Dose dispensing not only
helps an individual patient use medication correctly, it also assists caretakers and healthcare
Generic medicines have proven to be important in addressing both challenges: Generics
professionals in managing medications more effectively. Further, we adapt packaging to include
lower the cost of medicine through increased competition in the marketplace with increased
symbols and pictograms that illustrate dosage schedules to make it easier for patients to take the
availability of treatments. However, generics manufacturers are facing increasing costs
right doses of medicines at the right time.
related with inflationary pressure combined with procurement models that often only look
at the lowest price or pricing systems that don’t allow medicine prices to keep up with Participating in Relevant Patient Assistance And Government Sponsored Healthcare
unprecedented spikes in production costs. The combination can be difficult for industry to Or Tender Programs
manage while pursuing the mission of access.
Viatris participates in various government sponsored healthcare or tender programs around
Global, diverse and flexible supply chains are essential to timely access to affordable medicine the world. In the U.S., we also offer a patient assistance program that provides certain medicines
and, to that end, a key element in mitigating shortages is to promote and uphold policies that for free to patients with demonstrated financial need. In January 2022, we launched an updated
protect and enable these supply chains. Viatris Patient Assistance Program, which incorporates elements from the legacy Upjohn and
legacy Mylan organizations and allows us to continue our commitment to helping patients get
the treatments they need, when and where they need them.
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 61
EMPLOYEES We actively manage our incentive programs to ensure they are dynamic to attract key talent,
performance-driven to motivate and reward employees in achieving our stated objectives
Human Relations Organization and Governance in support of the continued growth of our business, and aid retention. Managers annually
evaluate employees’ performance and total compensation. We also leverage benchmarking
Our Human Relations (HR) function takes a people-first approach to supporting the
tools and subscriptions with external partners to ensure our total rewards programs are
success of our colleagues and our business by being closely integrated at all levels of
competitive and equitable.
the organization. The HR function focuses on the priority areas of talent, organizational
effectiveness, engagement and DE&I. This framework allows for HR to deliver solutions We remain committed to the fair, equitable treatment of individuals regardless of grounds
with specificity at the regional and local levels, while operating as a global community such as gender, race and ethnicity in our compensation practices and will continue to take
as it executes on its strategy. measures in support of pay equity.
The Human Relations function reports to the CEO. The function provides quarterly
updates to the Compensation Committee of the Viatris Board of Directors and, as needed, Recognizing Freedom of Association
to the full board on topics such as talent succession, DE&I, integration efforts and more.
We recognize and respect the rights of employees to have access to representation and
Global centers of excellence (COEs) for Talent, Total Rewards, People Insights and Employee collective bargaining, as articulated in the International Labor Organization core conventions.
& Labor Relations design strategies and programming in support of the company’s people, Around the world, we have a significant number of colleagues in manufacturing, commercial
performance and growth. The COEs are supported by our new People Solutions team, and corporate functions who are represented and covered by collective agreements. We
driving efficiencies through process development, technology, analytics and project engage with employee representatives globally and strive to maintain productive relationships
management. Regional HR leaders are also accountable for helping to deploy global and with them as we do with all employees.
local programs, working closely with our commercial, operations, scientific affairs and
enabling functions. Involving Employee Representatives
Actionable insights and guidance are provided by HR business partners who align our We are committed to informing and consulting with employee representatives and routinely
people strategy with business strategy at all levels of the organization. HR support for obtain their input, particularly regarding the work environment, employee safety, and providing
employee services is provided through channels that include online portals and regional wages, benefits and terms and conditions of employment aligned with the market.
people service centers.
Workforce data from across our global organization is regularly refreshed and reviewed
to provide analytics and insights on talent trends to inform decision-making that benefits
the business and improves the employee experience.
Compensation and Benefits
We maintain a robust rewards framework that provides competitive compensation and
benefits aligned with the market. In addition to rewarding employees, it also is intended
to align with the company’s business strategy of increasing shareholder value. Our
discretionary short- and long-term discretionary incentives include performance-based
annual cash bonuses, sales incentive compensation programs and equity grants, each
designed to drive the continued development of our business, recognize achievements,
create shareholder value and encourage behaviors expected of leaders.
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 62
WORKFORCE DATA1
Workforce 2020 2021 Full-time (Equivalent) Employees by Segment 2020 2021
Total Workforce 45,975 41,761 Overall 98.5% 98.5%
Employees 41,652 37,184 Developed Markets 96.4% 96.0%
Contingent Workers 4,323 4,577 Emerging Markets 100.0% 100.0%
Employees by Gender 2020 2021 Greater China 99.9% 100.0%
Female 34.4% 35.6% JANZ 98.9% 99.0%
Male 65.6% 64.4% Employees by Function & Gender 20203 2021
Employees by Segment & Gender 2020 2021 Commercial 31.6% 32.5%
Developed Markets 39.2% 36.2% Female 48.3% 50.5%
Female 48.6% 51.7% Male 51.7% 49.5%
Male 51.4% 48.3% Enabling Functions (General & Administrative) 7.6% 8.1%
Emerging Markets2 41.7% 43.6% Female 43.5% 43.3%
Female 16.6% 17.4% Male 56.5% 56.7%
Male 83.4% 82.6% Operations 52.9% 50.7%
Greater China 13.0% 14.7% Female 23.2% 23.1%
Female 50.2% 50.6% Male 76.8% 76.9%
Male 49.8% 49.4% Scientific Affairs 7.9% 8.7%
JANZ 6.1% 5.5% Female 44.5% 44.7%
Female 30.0% 33.9% Male 55.5% 55.3%
Male 70.0% 66.1% 1 Data as of Dec. 31, 2021
2 I ndia makes up 78% of Emerging Markets workforce. India manufacturing specifically makes up 60% of the Emerging
Markets workforce.
Viatris values diversity, embraces uniqueness and every person’s experience of self, including all dimensions of gender. 3 2 020 data adjusted to reflect remapping of Operations G&A employees to Operations from Enabling Functions to achieve
Viatris currently reports on gender categories of male and female in accordance with the applied reporting standards. consistency in year-over-year comparison with 2021 data
Viatris plans to make EE0-1 data available in the future.
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 63
WORKFORCE DATA
2020 2021 Employees by Age Group 2020 2021
People Managers1 by Segment & Gender
FEMALE MALE FEMALE MALE Average Age 39.7 39.6
People Managers Overall 32.5% 67.5% 33.2% 66.8% Under Age 25 4.4% 4.5%
Developed Markets 41.8% 58.2% 43.4% 56.6% Ages 25-34 34.6% 33.9%
Emerging Markets 15.8% 84.2% 16.9% 83.1% Ages 35-44 30.8% 32.2%
Greater China 49.9% 50.1% 49.7% 50.3% Ages 45-54 20.7% 20.9%
JANZ 21.5% 78.5% 26.9% 73.1% Ages 55-64 9.0% 8.1%
People Managers as a % of Overall Ages 65 and Over 0.5% 0.4%
FEMALE MALE FEMALE MALE
Female or Male Workforce
Career Progression by Gender3 2020 2021
People Managers Overall 15.1% 16.4% 15.6% 17.3%
Overall 16.7% 20.0%
Developed Markets 16.3% 21.5% 16.7% 23.3%
% of Overall Female Population 15.4% 19.8%
Emerging Markets 12.8% 13.7% 14.3% 14.8%
% of Overall Male Population 17.3% 20.2%
Greater China 15.4% 15.6% 14.8% 15.4%
1Managers defined as colleagues with at least one direct report
JANZ 10.4% 16.2% 12.2% 17.0% 2Senior management is equivalent to vice president level and above
3Progression defined as a change in grade or title due to lateral or expanding responsibilities
Senior Management by Gender2 FEMALE MALE FEMALE MALE
Overall 21.5% 78.5% 22.2% 77.8%
To learn more about the background and perspectives of the members of the Viatris Board,
Board Composition 2021
please see Viatris 2021 Proxy Statement, Viatris Amendment No. 1 on Form 10-K/A to the 2021
Total # of Board Members 13 Viatris Annual Report, and the Corporate Governance Principles.
By gender
Board Members who identify as Female 3
Board Members who identify as Male 10
By race and ethnicity
Board Members who identify as African American or Black 1
Board Members who identify as Asian 1
Board Members who identify as Two or More Races or Ethnicities 1
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 64
WORKFORCE DATA
12020 new hire rate includes full-year legacy Mylan data and legacy Upjohn data after Nov. 16, 2020
Employee New Hire Rate1 2020 2021 2Includes prior years of service with Mylan and Upjohn
3 Regular employees only; 2020 data adjusted to reflect reclassification of mutual agreement and retirement from Other
Overall 9.6% 11.3% to Voluntary to achieve consistency in year-over-year comparison with 2021 data; 2020 turnover rate includes full-year legacy
Mylan data and legacy Upjohn data after Nov. 16, 2020
Female 11.5% 14.4% 4Data reflects the global restructuring initiative announced in 2020
5Reasons include disability, ill health and inability to return from leave of absence, among others
Male 8.6% 9.7%
Average Employee Tenure2 2020 2021
Overall 9.5 8.5
Female 9.0 7.9
Male 9.8 8.8
Employee Turnover Rate3 2020 2021
Overall4 8.1% 23.1%
Female 9.5% 23.7%
Male 7.4% 22.8%
Voluntary Employee Turnover 6.1% 9.8%
Female 7.1% 11.5%
Male 5.6% 9.0%
Involuntary Employee Turnover4 1.8% 13.0%
Female 2.3% 12.0%
Male 1.6% 13.5%
Other Employee Turnover5 0.2% 0.3%
Female 0.2% 0.2%
Male 0.2% 0.3%
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 65
ENVIRONMENTAL, HEALTH AND SAFETY Roles and Responsibilities
Each business unit and its respective operating units must have in place programs and systems
Management System and Governance
that address all applicable principles set out in the Global EHS Management System. Established
At Viatris, we have a holistic approach to and integrated management of environmental, at all levels of the organization, EHS functions, roles and responsibilities are in place to help
health and safety (EHS). We are creating an EHS management model, continuing the curate a culture of safety and environmental compliance.
integration of two strong legacy programs and leveraging their strengths. Founded on 13
The Viatris President oversees operations within the company and provides guidance and
Principles, our framework is built to support compliance with local regulatory requirements
strategic direction on operational topics including environmental, health and safety and climate
and global company policies and to nurture a culture of continuous improvement.
change-related topics. The Global EHS function is integrated across the organization and reports
Our Global EHS Policies — the Global Environmental Stewardship Policy, Global Climate into the Chief Operating Officer (COO), through vertical leaders. The COO reports to the President.
Change Policy, Global Water Policy — and Global Health & Safety Policy are based on our The Viatris Board’s Risk Oversight committee is appraised on applicable EHS issues including
governing EHS Principles. The policies apply to all of Viatris’ global operations, from senior climate-related issues such as regulatory or compliance activities, external and internal reporting
management down through every level of the organization. requirements, as well as hurricane preparedness and response, among other topics.
The company’s Technical Requirements establish global minimum operating requirements Working collaboratively with operations and business unit leaders, the Global EHS team
for a variety of environmental and safety activities. Our global programs, guidelines leverages technical expertise across multiple disciplines, including environmental management,
and technical standards cover topics including safety, waste management, wastewater health and safety, industrial hygiene, occupational toxicology, training, process safety and
management and discharge, incident management, chemical management, facility design, information technology (IT) systems. Site and regional teams are supported by global subject
ozone-depleting substances and refrigerants, air emissions, pharmaceuticals in the matter experts in key areas of EHS. The Global EHS team oversees the data collection,
environment and environmental hazard assessments of products. management and monitoring of EHS activities through a global database and system.
Implementing these policies and standards helps support compliance with applicable
regulations in the countries and locations where we operate, in addition to filling potential
Global EHS Governance Global EHS
gaps where certain regulations may not exist.
EHS FUNCTIONS
The management system is built on the following principles: Comprised of cross-functional Develops and oversees the EHS
AND ROLES policies, programs, standards,
leaders who provide guidance on
PRINCIPLE 1: Management and PRINCIPLE 7: EHS Training guidance documents, systems
the Global EHS Program.
and tools implemented at Viatris.
Leadership Accountability
PRINCIPLE 8: Information Systems and
PRINCIPLE 2: Risk Assessment and Performance
Global EHS Shared Site EHS Leads
Management Services Teams Regional EHS Teams and Teams
PRINCIPLE 9: Contractor and Supplier
PRINCIPLE 3: Regulatory Compliance Operations Provide expert knowledge, guidance Provide direct support to Site EHS
Management and tools for EHS Teams globally and GMs including compliance, Focus directly on site EHS
PRINCIPLE 10: Occupational Toxicology and include Occupational Toxicology, program, system and guidance compliance, management,
PRINCIPLE 4: Emergency Response and and Industrial Hygiene Industrial Hygiene, Process Safety, support and support Global and programs and activities.
Regional programs, systems
Preparedness EHS Training and EHS Systems. and guidelines.
PRINCIPLE 11: Facility Acquisition,
PRINCIPLE 5: Incident Management Divestiture and Design Requirements
PRINCIPLE 6: Environmental PRINCIPLE 12: Change Management
Sustainability and Stewardship
PRINCIPLE 13: Assessment and Improvement
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 66
Continuous Improvement Health and Safety Performance
We work to continuously improve our EHS programs by keeping safety and environmental Across all locations, protecting the safety of not only our employees but also our contractors and
management at the forefront of our vision and practices. The Global EHS Management System visitors is vital. Contractors and visitors are covered by site-specific EHS policies and procedures.
supports the systematic identification of continuous improvement opportunities and industry With established guidelines for contractor safety management, pre-screening and training, the
best practices. safety performance of our contractors is tracked.
The Global EHS Management System builds on a four step cycle for continuous improvement:
Health and Safety Performance 2020 2021
Total Recordable Incident Rate (Recordable cases per 200,000
1. PLAN 2. IMPLEMENT 3. CHECK 4. PERFORMANCE 0.53 0.48
IMPROVEMENT hours worked)
Determine Close the Measure
potential potential gaps implementation Consider where Total DART Incident Rate (cases per 200,000 hours worked) 0.38 0.31
gaps between performance we could be
where we are Total Lost Time Incident Rate (Lost time cases per 200,000 hours worked) 0.32 0.27
versus where
we should be
Work-related fatalities 0 0
Internal and External EHS Audits
External Certifications 2020 2021
Internal assessment and audit are core components of our EHS management approach
and serve several purposes, including identifying risks to people, the environment and the Number of sites certified to OSHA 18001 and ISO 45001 14 15
company; fostering continuous improvement; and promoting knowledge transfer. In 2021,
Number of sites certified to the British Safety Council 6 4
we further built out our EHS risk assessment program. We routinely conduct assessments
and on-site audits, including reviews of our systems, procedures, programs and data. Every
Environmental Certifications
site has a one- to five-year auditing frequency, with the actual schedule established per a
risk-based approach that incorporates EHS performance trends, facility design, regulatory
External Certifications 2020 2021
compliance and other EHS program requirements. For observations identified, the audited
facility develops and implements action plans, which are tracked by the EHS function. Number of sites certified to ISO 14001 21 17
Reporting Number of sites certified to ISO 50001 8 7
We monitor and track many elements of our environmental and safety performance, 2020 data represents Legacy Mylan. 2021 data represent Viatris.
allowing us to manage data, oversee results and identify risks and opportunities. Our IT Data as of February 2022. Information may be restated due to the availability of additional data.
Includes data for manufacturing, packaging, research and development, and distribution sites based on direct operational control.
systems include custom-built databases, tools, dashboards and reports that drive EHS
compliance and identification of key trends, opportunities and information.
We are committed to being transparent regarding the company’s environmental efforts
40% of total manufacturing locations are ISO14001 certified
and performance. We report externally on an annual basis and communicate throughout
the year to inform internal and external stakeholders about our work and raise general 100% of India API manufacturing locations are ISO 14001 certified
awareness of environmental issues. 93% of India manufacturing locations are ISO14001 certified
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 67
Risk Management GHG Emissions and Climate Change
EHS risks are evaluated for our products, processes and facilities. As directed by company We are committed to taking steps in an effort to mitigate our impact on and risk from
policies, the Global EHS Management System and technical requirements, each site is climate change. As noted previously in the report, we have committed to set near-term
required to utilize EHS risk assessments using a formal process to analyze environmental, company-wide emission reductions in line with climate science with SBTi. These goals
health and safety risks and maintain continuous improvement plans. have been submitted to the SBTi for validation and approval.
We assess the risks to our network on an ongoing basis and take measures to help ensure Operations sites have set various short-term strategies that support the company’s overall
our ability to uphold a stable supply of medicines. Protecting our employees, our products, commitments and goals, and several initiatives have been implemented throughout the
our facilities and the environment has always been a priority. As part of those efforts, we organization. These include increasing the purchase of renewable energy, utilizing alternative
also evaluate regulatory and physical risks and opportunities associated with the effect of fuel sources and fugitive emissions reductions, and phasing out ozone-depleting substances,
climate change across our operations. as required. We are systematically looking for ways to improve energy management and
efficiencies by implementing energy efficiency and emissions reduction projects.
Environmental risk management plans include improving water management, increasing
recycling efforts, mitigating climate change risks including management of ozone-depleting As part of the extensive work to develop science-based reduction targets for Scope 1, 2 and 3,
substances, refrigerants, GHG emissions, improving energy efficiencies and data management. we did baseline assessments and forward-looking plans. Since 2020, we have been evaluating
Scope 3 emissions including from purchased goods and services, other fuel-and-energy-related
Other environmental management areas of focus include:
activities and from upstream and downstream transportation, as part of advancing on our SBTi
• Waste objectives. We plan to further intensify supplier engagement and leverage the PSCI partnership.
• Water scarcity analysis using the World Resources Institute Aqueduct tool We recognize the focus on relevant information on the management of risks and opportunities
related to climate change through the enhanced disclosure recommendations from the Task
• Wastewater treatment and discharge
Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), and we continue to incorporate its
• Regulated air emissions
recommendations into our strategies and disclosures.
• GHG emissions and climate change, including physical risks such as extreme
weather-related and chronic physical risks such as drought or extreme temperatures
• Pharmaceuticals in the environment, including antimicrobial resistance
As part of Viatris’ Global EHS Management System, we are implementing a new program
and technical requirement on Pharmaceuticals in the Environment. Viatris conducts
qualitative manufacturing effluent risk assessments to determine the appropriate level
of control measures to be implemented in manufacturing to protect the environment
from releases of pharmaceutical ingredients. Meanwhile, Viatris is expanding its journey
of conducting quantitative manufacturing effluent risk assessments to other product
classifications in addition to previously completed antibiotic assessments. Viatris has
established a prioritization scheme to help drive the progression of these assessments
from a high to low-risk basis.
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 68
Notes related to tables
Energy Purchased (GWh) 2020 2021
* T he 2020 Revenue is the unaudited combined company revenue as stated on page 99 of the Form 10-k for the Fiscal Year Ended
Total electric purchased 747 714 December 31, 2021. This is used for modeling purposes to provide a year-on-year comparison for the intensity metrics.
• Reflects the merger of Mylan and Upjohn plus the divestiture of sites sold in 2021
Renewable electric sources 86 86 • Operational control model used, this includes manufacturing, packaging, research and development, distribution and
large commercial facilities
Non-renewable electric sources 660 628 • Data for 2020 has been adjusted to account for acquisitions and divestitures, in accordance with the methodology
prescribed in the WRI Greenhouse Gas Protocol
Total fuel purchased (GWh) 1,178 1,161 • Excludes data and sources from employee travel and commutes, small administrative/lab sites, small warehouses and
other business transportation
Biomass 10 9 • Data does not include process emissions from manufacturing or emissions from insignificant sources such as welding
gases, lab gases, fire extinguishers, dry ice, etc.
Coal 584 624 • All solvent combustion in air pollution control devices in Scope 1 emissions is treated as ethanol
• 2021 GHG emissions verification in progress. This is being conducted by a third-party to a reasonable level of assurance
Fuel Oil 221 165 using the methodology of the GHG Protocol issued by the World Business Council for Sustainable Development and the
World Resources Institute
Natural Gas 194 168 • Where applicable, prior year data has been restated due to improved data quality
Propane 133 161
Others 36 35
Total energy purchased (GWh) 1925 1875
Energy Intensity Ratio (GWh / million USD revenue)* 0.105 0.105
Greenhouse Gas Emissions (thousand metric tons COe) 2020 2021
2
Total GHG emissions 785.3 770.9
Scope 1 GHG emissions 352.4 355.0
Scope 2 GHG emissions (Market-based) 432.9 415.8
Total GHG Emissions Intensity Ratio (metric tons COe/million
2 42 43
USD revenue)*
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 69
Water and Wastewater Management
We recognize that water is a scarce resource in some of the communities where we live and
Pharmaceuticals in the Environment
work. We are committed to working proactively to protect water resources and continue to
improve our water management practices and systems. The primary pathways for pharmaceuticals entering the environment from human
use are by normal patient excretion, improper disposal of medicine by consumers
Our goal is to perform water risk assessments for all locations in high or extremely high
and the use of pharmaceuticals in agriculture and livestock. A significantly
water risk areas as identified by the World Resource Institute and identify appropriate
smaller contribution stems from emissions resulting from the pharmaceutical
water conservation initiatives by 2025. All operations sites are periodically audited to
manufacturing process.
ensure compliance with local regulatory and internal standards.
While gaps remain in the scientific link between pharmaceuticals in the
Responsible wastewater treatment is a key point of focus for our industry. Our teams
environment and human health risk, we are committed to reducing
work to identify opportunities to improve water management within our highly regulated
pharmaceuticals discharged from our manufacturing operations. The company’s
industry. The production requirements of our operations, coupled with local regulations
approach to addressing and minimizing the potential impact of pharmaceuticals
and infrastructure, guide the type of water and wastewater management techniques
in the environment (PiE) from our own manufacturing is based on a wide range of
applied. We implement appropriate controls, technologies and containment strategies to
activities and governance:
minimize the amount of potential pharmaceutical ingredients that could enter wastewater.
All wastewater streams are then treated to ensure compliance with local regulatory and • Risk and Impact Evaluation
internal standards. In India, multiple sites apply zero liquid discharge (ZLD) technology that
• Risk Reduction and Control
eliminates wastewater discharge. To help ensure our ZLD- equipped plants continue to
operate effectively, we continue to conduct independent, third-party assessments on some • Engagement and Policy
ZLD facilities and will continue to conduct additional evaluations. We are active participants in several trade association work groups with a focus on
responsible effluent management and appropriate disposal of unused medicine.
We maintain all applicable permits and authorizations for wastewater discharge issued
by governing authorities and comply with all local discharge limits. As per our technical
requirements, sites are to minimize the amount of pharmaceutical ingredients released to
the environment and must conduct manufacturing effluent risk assessments to confirm that
management practices are adequate to reduce risk. Water Use & Discharge Summary (thousand m3) 2020 2021
Total water withdrawal 4,037 3,866
Key Principles in Responsible Effluent Management
Total water recycled and reused 593 632
• Compliance with applicable company standards and regulatory requirements
Total water discharged 1,905 1,775
• Implementation of defined sound wastewater management programs that are
based on risk management and good engineering principles Sites with zero liquid discharge (ZLD) systems 9 9
• Utilizing published/industry API specific discharge targets based on safe
• Reflects the merger of Mylan and Upjohn plus the divestiture of sites sold in 2021
concentrations in the receiving surface waters (PNECs) • Where applicable, prior year data has been restated due to improved data quality
• Includes data for manufacturing, packaging, research and development, and distribution sites based on direct on
• Conducting manufacturing effluent risk assessments of wastewater containing
operational control
API at our manufacturing locations; if a risk is identified, implement appropriate
• Some data includes estimates and is subject to revision
additional controls to mitigate the risk to an acceptable level
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 70
Air Emissions
Water Use by Sources (thousand m3) 2020 2021
We are committed to reducing emissions in the air, and we use the companywide EHS program
Municipal/Third-party 3,246 3,244 to identify, track, monitor and control prioritized emissions per industry standards and
regulatory guidelines. Our facilities are equipped with air emission control devices to manage
On-site borewell 551 559
regulated air pollutants. Viatris has developed a new Air Emissions Technical Requirement
Rainwater 57 60 that expands the tracking of air pollutants, and includes requirements around pharmaceutical
emissions, storage tank system fugitive emissions, visual emissions, and odor.
Other 3 2
• Reflects the merger of Mylan and Upjohn plus the divestiture of sites sold in 2021
• Where applicable, prior year data has been restated due to improved data quality
External initiatives in which we engage regarding manufacturing
• Includes data for manufacturing, packaging, research and development, and distribution sites based on direct
operational control
and the environment include:
• Total wastewater discharge includes sanitary/domestic sewage
• Some data includes estimates and may be updated at a later time when more accurate data is available
• CDP reporting
Waste Management • AMR Industry Alliance
The companywide EHS waste management standards, along with industry regulations, – Board Member
govern specific handling, treatment, storage and disposal of all waste. Each waste stream is
– Manufacturing Work Group
reviewed and evaluated to determine the best treatment method. Waste treatment methods
are selected based on the type of waste treatment requirements and internal standards. We • Medicines for Europe
strive to use recycling, reuse and energy recovery options, including waste-to-energy facilities, – Environment, Health, and Safety Work Group
cement kilns and fuel-blending facilities where possible to treat waste. Converting waste to
• Inter-Association Initiative on Pharmaceuticals in the Environment Task Force
energy contributes to the substitution of fossil fuel at these facilities.
• Bulk Drug Manufacturers Association of India
We have a goal to achieve a 50% increase in the number of zero landfill locations by 2030;
using 2020 as a baseline year. • Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI)
Waste Management (thousand metric tons) 2020 2021
Total waste generated 75.10 80.93
Hazardous waste 52 57
Non-hazardous waste 23 24
Percentage of waste recycled or sent to energy recovery (%) 74% 70%
Significant spills 0 0
• Reflects the merger of Mylan and Upjohn plus the divestiture of sites sold in 2021
• Where applicable, prior year data has been restated due to improved data quality
• Includes data for manufacturing, packaging, research and development, and distribution sites based on direct
operational control
• Some data includes estimates and is subject to revision
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 71
CSR OVERSIGHT AND COMPLIANCE
How Viatris Considers Price as Part of Our
CSR Governance
Commitment to Accessibility
Viatris’ Board of Directors (Viatris’ Board) oversees management’s efforts with respect to CSR
through its Risk Oversight Committee. The CSR function operates as a center of excellence within
At Viatris, we provide a portfolio of more than 1,400 approved molecules for patients
the Corporate Affairs leadership team. The head of CSR Development and Operations drives the
across a broad range of major therapeutic areas, spanning both noncommunicable
strategic and operational development of CSR across the company together with key partners.
and infectious diseases. Our global portfolio includes best-in-class, iconic brand-name
The Head of Corporate Affairs reports directly to the CEO and communicates quarterly with the
products as well as global key brands; generics, including branded and complex
Viatris Board through the Risk Oversight Committee. The global CSR function includes teams in
generics; and biosimilars. Many of the medicines in our portfolio are not protected by
the U.S., Europe and India with additional partners across other geographies.
patents and therefore are subject to a general trend of price deflation over time.
A multifunctional CSR Advisory Committee comprised of global leaders convenes monthly and
As we participate in tender programs or public-private partnerships around the
monitors the progress and supports the integration of CSR initiatives across the organization.
globe, we evaluate the price of the generics within our portfolio based on an
Progress on strategic focus areas and execution of relevant tasks rely on a broad and engaged
assessment of patients’ need, supply, demand, the cost of manufacturing and
network of functional leaders across the company. Additional monthly and quarterly structured
the affordability of our products, especially as it relates to the equivalent brand
forums, addressing areas of focus with regards to CSR and sustainability for specific key
name drug, among other determinants. Other factors considered when pricing our
functions, complement the advisory committee.
branded portfolio include their value to patients and providers as well as current
economic indicators.
Risk Governance and Management
Ensuring that patients across all income levels have access to the medicines we offer
We are committed to operating ethically and with integrity and seek to apply a holistic, means we must carefully evaluate the socioeconomic conditions within each market
enterprise-wide approach to risk management. We are subject to a number of risks inherent in where Viatris does business while simultaneously sustaining our ability to consistently
the complex and rapidly changing environment in which we operate including, but not limited provide patients with a reliable supply of the quality products they need. We are
to, global operations, environmental and social matters. The company’s management and uniquely positioned to provide holistic solutions for governments, NGOs and health
employees implement and administer risk management processes to identify material risks to systems globally as we partner to connect more people to products and services.
our business. Management assesses, monitors and manages material risks to our business,
all while maintaining flexibility in how we operate. To further embed risk management and
compliance into our culture, we implement policies and procedures and train employees on
that may adversely impact it, such as unrest/conflicts, legal or regulatory matters,
how to comply with them. Management reports quarterly to the Viatris Board’s Risk Oversight
supply disruptions, pandemics, environmental events — including those related to climate
Committee regarding enterprise risk, as well as the other committees regarding risk-related
change (e.g., flooding, drought, extreme temperatures, severe storms or other significant
matters within the scope of their oversight responsibilities. Global Internal Audit and Global
business interruptions).
Compliance report into the Audit and Compliance committees of the Viatris Board, respectively.
By embedding our ERM processes into the company’s strategic planning process, we seek to
The company’s enterprise risk management (ERM) and business crisis management processes
optimize our ability to identify risks, while also identifying and leveraging opportunities. We
and associated programs are supported by multiple functional areas, including, among others,
conduct periodic enterprise risk assessments to identify key and emerging risks. The ESG priority
Global Internal Audit, Global Information Technology, Global Information Security, Global
assessment informs the periodic enterprise risk assessment. For each key and emerging risk
Compliance, CSR, Global EHS, Global Security, Finance, Legal, Quality and Product Safety. Other
identified, we have a process to establish risk ownership and evaluate risk mitigation activities.
stakeholders support the company’s ERM activities as needed. These programs are designed to
We continue to expand the use of key risk indicators to enhance our ability to evaluate risk
support the business and ensure that the company is prepared to respond to a variety of events
mitigation activities and as a tool for risk monitoring and reporting.
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 72
As we continue to expand into new geographies — potentially with different risk profiles — Key areas within Global Privacy Governance include, but are not limited to:
safeguarding integrity in business conduct and our assets is critical. We have well-
• Employee training;
established procedures to identify, manage and monitor risks as part of expanding our
business. Risks associated with expansion into new geographies and other outputs of • Aligning the company’s practices and procedures with all relevant local, regional, national,
our ERM program are leveraged by Global Internal Audit in determining areas over which and international laws and regulations;
it will perform audits. • Overseeing the revision and negotiation of privacy agreements and privacy terms;
In connection with its oversight responsibilities, the Compliance Committee of the • Privacy and data protection due diligence for third parties, including vendors and HCPs,
Viatris Board reviews significant global compliance-related policies relating to pricing and in connection with distribution arrangements and acquisitions;
and/or commercialization of the company’s products and services, among other
• Ensuring appropriate and compliant responses to individual’s privacy rights requests;
oversight responsibilities.
• Appropriate contact with relevant data protection authorities and handling inquiries and
requests for information from same; and
Global Privacy Governance
• Investigation of any suspected and/or confirmed incidents.
The company is committed to protecting the information relating to identified or identifiable
natural persons (Protected Data). The Viatris Privacy Notice (Privacy Notice) describes our
Information Security
collection, use, disclosure and retention of Protected Data in relation to our websites, apps,
services, and platforms, and the use of them, our marketing and provision of products and We have an information security strategy which focuses on implementation of effective controls,
services, our interactions with individuals in-person, by calling us, or by mail, and otherwise procedures, and training on decreasing risks, increasing information security maturity, improving
during the operation of our business. The Privacy Notice also explains the ways in which, security capabilities and secure partnership enablement.
under applicable laws, a person can control the processing of their Protected Data and
Our Information Security organization consists of an internal team of certified subject matter
exercise other rights.
experts in the areas of information security risk management, supply chain information security,
All company personnel are required to adhere to and comply with applicable company policies incident response, security operations, access and application security, education and awareness
and procedures. Should applicable data protection laws or regulations provide for more and security operations. The team is supplemented by a 24/7 managed security service provider
stringent requirements than specified in our governance documents, those applicable data that serves as the initial point of contact globally for security monitoring, incident response and
protection laws and regulations govern. vulnerability management.
The company monitors, investigates, and responds to suspected and/or confirmed Protected The Viatris leadership team is updated as needed or on a quarterly basis regarding the
Data incidents as required by applicable data protection laws and in proportion to the nature, status of the overall cybersecurity program, emerging external and internal risks and key risk
extent, and sensitivity of the Protected Data. indicator performance. The Chief Information Security Officer and Chief Information Officer
reports bi-annually to the Risk Oversight Committee of the Viatris Board regarding our
The Head of Global Privacy oversees all ongoing activities related to the development,
information security program and performance.
implementation, maintenance, and adherence to the company’s policies and procedures
relating to Protected Data.
Sources For more detailed information about the risks and uncertainties associated with our
business activities, see our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2021
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 73
As part of our multi-year information security program, we focus on seven key threat Organization
areas: malware, hacking, social, physical, misuse, accidental and environmental. Across
The Chief Compliance Officer (CCO) has the operational responsibility to ensure the
each of these seven areas, we have comprehensive policies and procedures in place to
company’s corporate compliance program is effective and robust and directs its day-to-
identify and mitigate risks as well as train employees. In addition to internal experts, we
day implementation. To ensure broad perspectives and independence in the compliance
utilize third parties for management, controls and audits. Depending on the asset risk
department, the CCO reports to the Viatris Board’s Compliance Committee and the Chief
profile, testing is conducted on a quarterly basis. Our control procedures are designed
Executive Officer.
to support a remote-flexible work environment.
The Compliance Committee makes recommendations to the Board and/or oversees the
Protections Against Hacking development, implementation, maintenance and monitoring of the corporate compliance
program, the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, and significant related global policies
We run a security monitoring program in partnership with an external managed security service
designed to support and promote compliance with company requirements, and legal rules
provider. We employ multifactor authentication and certificate-based encryption for all external
and regulations. This includes topics such as Anti-Corruption and Fair Competition, which
access and authenticated connections. Vulnerability management and patch management
are covered within the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics.
processes are in place to reduce the overall threat landscape. The network is monitored 24 hours
a day, seven days a week, and 365 days a year using industry best practices, tools and processes. The company’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics outlines guiding principles on how
Penetration testing is conducted quarterly by internal and third-party resources based on asset employees and those working on our behalf must conduct themselves. It also informs on
risk. Cybersecurity simulations, including tabletop exercises, are executed to test the company’s policies and standards while providing high-level guidance on critical areas of the company’s
procedures and the internal team’s ability to detect, respond and recover in the event of an business operations.
attack. Our standards and policies are reviewed on an annual basis by a third party.
The compliance department is organized by operating regions and Global Centers of
As part of continuing to improve our overall information security capabilities, we focus on Excellence (CoE). The compliance department and the Global Compliance Program are
addressing all areas of the National Institute for Science and Technology (NIST) Cybersecurity structured in a manner consistent with the Office of Inspector General of the U.S. Department
Framework: Identify, Detect, Protect, Respond, and Recovery. Every two years, we conduct an of Health and Human Services (OIG) Resource Guide for Measuring Compliance Program
information security benchmark using the Information Security Forum’s (ISF) assessment tool. Effectiveness. A direct report to the CCO leads three global CoEs that are anchored by our
In addition to the overall risk mitigation program, we carry a multitiered cyber insurance policy. Global Compliance Service Hub and that support the company’s global operating regions and
business. A senior compliance leader manages each respective CoE, which focuses on policies,
Cultivating Good Conduct and Compliance training and communications, risk assessment and monitoring, due diligence, and investigations.
Everyone in the company — and those acting on our behalf — are personally responsible and
Areas of focus in Viatris’ global compliance framework include:
accountable for the company’s reputation and dedication to doing business with integrity.
We implement robust policies, procedures, and associated training to support that • Raising Concerns
individual responsibility.
• Operational Compliance
• Fraud and Corruption
• Fair Competition, Pricing, and Anti-trust
• Corporate and Securities Laws
• Fair Employment and Data Privacy Practices
Sources For more detailed information about the risks and uncertainties associated with our
business activities, see our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2021
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 74
To reinforce our commitment to compliance, in 2021 we: • Employees who deal directly with the government receive additional, focused training
related to Standards for Interactions with HCPs from their local Compliance partner(s).
• Continued to harmonize compliance-related topics into a unified policy landscape for Viatris
• Established regional investigation committees to streamline the compliance investigations
• Continued to implement an effective, comprehensive and consistent Global
process while building efficiencies, aligning to the commercial segments and creating
Compliance Monitoring Program to improve risk-management capabilities
transparency and partnership with key stakeholder functions.
• Further enhanced our compliance investigations process in consideration of
company requirements as well as evolving laws and regulations In addition to comprehensive training in relevant areas in which an employee may work, we
require employees to complete regular trainings in regard to the Code of Business Conduct,
We also established a Global Compliance Service Hub in India, which includes the following Fair Competition an Anti-Corruption, among other topics, and track completion rates. In 2021,
key elements: the completion rate for Code of Business Conduct and Ethics training was 97%.
• Enhanced management of Trade Control Risk Fighting Corruption and Promoting Fair Competition
• Mergers & Acquisitions Due Diligence under the direction of global leadership
The company’s anti-corruption program is based on the elements of the U.S. Department of Justice
• Updated the current system for Transparency Reporting (DOJ) and Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Resource Guide to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act; the U.K. Ministry of Justice Bribery Act 2010 Guidance; and the Organisation for
The compliance department oversees the development, maintenance and recordkeeping of Economic Cooperation and Development’s Good Practice Guidance on Internal Controls, Ethics
general and administrative global policies and procedures and performs various periodic and and Compliance, as well as the local laws where we operate.
needs-based operational audits throughout the year, often in conjunction with Internal Audit.
A few highlights:
As part of reinforcing the culture of compliance in the continued integration, during 2021, we
• Our anti-corruption policy requirements set out in our Global Compliance Governance
implemented a Global Compliance Campaign to further underscore how our commitment to
Document strictly forbid bribery and corruption in any form anywhere we do business.
ethical standards and robust compliance helps to support our mission and is vitally important
to the patients who use our products. The Global Compliance Campaign addressed compliance- • The policy defines bribery and corruption, including facilitation payments, which are
related tools, leadership messaging and training, among other activities. In addition, our CEO strictly prohibited even where permitted under local law.
and CCO held virtual town halls, together with regional compliance leaders and compliance
• We have monitoring and auditing procedures in place to identify and deter such payments.
champions across our global footprint. Looking to 2022, an external assessment of the Viatris
• We reassess our anti-corruption program periodically and make enhancements as warranted.
global compliance program is planned.
Training and Education Training is provided for employees regarding bribery, corruption, facilitation payments and areas
of increased risk. The training also guides employees on what constitutes acceptable behavior
We require and provide dedicated training on anti-corruption, fair competition and
and how to seek support when questions arise. We also monitor any case of suspected conflict of
the company’s Standards for Interactions with HCPs, for employees with relevant job
interest. Each identified case is investigated and if concerns remain after investigation, actions are
responsibilities. We also require specific training courses for individuals based on their
taken as appropriate.
function. Examples include:
We provide several options for personnel to submit concerns or seek guidance: either online or via
• Vendors that may interact with government officials on our behalf also receive
telephone, mail or email. Colleagues can also to reach out to their manager, specific departments,
anticorruption training.
their local compliance support, or use the Compliance Line.
• Depending on their role, part-time employees and contractors are required to take
subsets of the trainings listed above.
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 75
As part of the company’s ERM program, Internal Audit assesses anti-corruption and anti-fraud For investigating, resolving and remediating reported events, our Global Policy on Reporting and
management over entities throughout the world from a corruption risk perspective. Investigating Compliance Related Matters requires thorough, timely, and impartial investigation
of reported concerns in coordination with the Human Relations team as well as Legal and other
Size (the number of people and sales volume) and a country’s ranking in the Transparency
functions as appropriate, and fair and consistent disciplinary measures when appropriate.
International Corruption Perception Index (CPI) are key to informing the potential risk
profile of an entity. Entities identified as being in a higher-risk environment along with The policy is available to all employees on the company’s intranet. Every effort will be made to
those of strategic importance to the company are a particular focus. Further, we monitor keep reports of CRMs and ORMs confidential to the extent possible, consistent with the need to
business activities that are deemed an elevated risk — such as government officials and conduct an adequate investigation and in accordance with any applicable local law. Compliance
HCP interactions — through established internal processes and controls. Our procedures and its partners seek to maintain confidentiality throughout the investigation process and to
also address our business partners. In 2021, we continued updating local risk assessments help ensure that good faith reporters do not suffer negative employment actions as a result of
based on development of the business and compliance risks globally. their allegations.
Responsible Marketing and Promotion
Ensuring Good Conduct in External Partnerships
Our colleagues often interact with members of the healthcare community as part of their efforts
External partners sometimes act as intermediaries on our behalf or in settings where special
to educate on the appropriate use and efficacy of the company’s products. These interactions are
skills or expertise are required. Given their role, it’s essential these partners comply with the
important and fundamental to increasing patient access but may bring elevated risk.
company’s ethical and anti-corruption standards and act with good judgment.
Our Standards for Interactions with HCPs instruct employees on proper behavior when engaging
The compliance department identifies business partner categories that may carry higher
with HCPs. The standards are grounded in company-wide standards and take into consideration
inherent corruption and/or reputational risk. These partners operating in high-risk areas
local laws and regulations. Any member of our workforce who interacts with HCPs is trained on
(whether geographic or subject matter), noted during the business contract drafting and
the standards and is required to comply with them. Additionally, employees are trained in the
approval process, are subject to a risk review based on a robust due diligence process including
company’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, which also addresses interactions with HCPs.
investigation and clarification of discovered legal, civil and reputational allegations or convictions.
We have well established global, regional and local policies and procedures that inform
Anti-corruption language is included in our contracts, as applicable. We also have a process to
employees on appropriate interactions with the healthcare community and requirements
train business partners who interact with government officials on the company’s behalf in our
pertaining to drug promotion and ethical marketing. Risk assessments, monitoring and
anti-corruption policy requirements and procedures.
employee training are key components of each. Our policies are consistent with regulations
and adhere to ethical standards set forth by the company and industry associations.
Reporting Compliance Concerns
We encourage open communication, provide a variety of channels for reporting potential
compliance violations, and strictly prohibit retaliation relating to any reports made in good faith.
Employees are encouraged to discuss compliance concerns with their supervisor, Human
Relations, Legal, or Compliance. They also can use the company’s Compliance Line, which is
operated by an external party.
The Compliance Line is available 24/7 and permits anonymous reports in all countries in local
languages where permitted by law. In addition, colleagues can report a concern through the
online web portal located on the Company’s intranet.
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 76
The Global Policy for the Marketing and Advertising Review Council requires the establishment of Engaging in Political Activity Responsibly
local procedures to ensure that all promotional materials and other commercial communications
As part of advocating for sustainable access to medicine and holistic solutions for more resilient
are reviewed and approved internally by appropriate subject matter experts.
healthcare systems, we educate stakeholders on complex topics related to the highly regulated
• The goal of the local review procedures implemented under the policy is to ensure that pharmaceutical industry. As a global healthcare company, we seek to mitigate the risk of
all materials and communications intended for promotional or commercial purposes are unintended negative consequences for patients from even the most well-intended policies.
accurate, truthful, medically and scientifically sound, not misleading, and compliant with all
In accordance with relevant laws and regulations, Viatris may support political candidates and
applicable marketing, legal, regulatory and medical requirements and company policies.
organizations of various political parties, directly or through trade associations, in support of
• These local procedures include robust review processes, risk assessments and public policies that align directly with Viatris’ mission and policy objectives. Among other areas
compliance monitoring as part of the company’s compliance program and enterprise of interest, we support efforts that contribute to pharmaceutical safety and innovation to further
risk management. our mission in providing patients access to high quality medicine.
All political contributions are required to be made in accordance with relevant local laws.
Only to the extent allowed by law may Viatris directly contribute to political candidates and
Promotional activities and materials must never involve promotion of drugs for
political organizations. This is relevant primarily for Viatris’ U.S. subsidiaries and Viatris’ U.S.
off-label indications, uses, doses or populations.
Political Action Committee (ViaPAC), a voluntary, nonpartisan, employee run committee. The
Viatris Board’s Compliance Committee oversees company global policies and procedures for
corporate political and lobbying expenditures. A report of these expenditures, along with certain
U.S. trade association affiliations, is made available on our website. Viatris’ policy governing
political contributions also is available on Viatris.com. Within the U.S., that includes filing relevant
lobbying and political contribution reports in accordance with the U.S. Lobbying Disclosure Act.
Those reports can be found on the U.S. Senate office of Public Records website or the U.S. House
of Representatives Office of the Clerk website. Viatris is also required to comply with any laws
that govern its lobbying and advocacy efforts generally.
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 77
Respecting Human Rights Honoring Our Commitment as a Publicly Traded Company
As a participant in the UN Global Compact, we recognize our responsibility to support and promote Viatris Inc. is a publicly traded company listed on NASDAQ and incorporated in Delaware.
the protection of human rights within and beyond our own operations. We do so through our core The Viatris Board of Directors is responsible for oversight of the company and its
business and in how we conduct ourselves in our dealings with partners. We are committed to the management. Viatris’ board has established eight committees, each of which operates
Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact and respect the International Bill of Human Rights and pursuant to a written charter. Certain of the directors’ duties, rights and responsibilities are
the Fundamental Conventions of the International Labour Organization. detailed in the company’s Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws and committee charters,
among other governance documents. Viatris is subject to applicable rules, regulations
The company’s global policies and associated procedures, employee and partner training and
and/or listing standards of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, NASDAQ and
due diligence are the foundation of our work to mitigate the risk of human-rights violations.
the U.S. State of Delaware General Corporation Law, among other requirements.
Topics relevant to human rights are addressed through a variety of company policies,
including our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Supplier Code of Conduct, Policy
Statement Regarding Slavery and Human Trafficking, Global Policy on Combatting
Human Trafficking in Persons, Policy on Diversity and Inclusion and the Global Policy
Prohibiting Discrimination, Harassment and Retaliation as well as the companywide
EHS program.
Examples include:
• freedom of association
• prohibition of trafficking of persons
• prohibition of forced and child labor
• handling of identity and immigration documents
• wages
• working hours
• safety in the workplace
• preventing harassment
• recruitment practices
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 78
APPENDIX
PRODUCTS ON THE WHO PREQUALIFICATION LIST
International nonproprietary name (INN) Dosage form & strength International nonproprietary name (INN) Dosage form & strength
Sofosbuvir Tablet, Film-coated 400mg Ritonavir Tablet, Film-coated 100mg
Daclatasvir (dihydrochloride) Tablet, Film-coated 60mg Lamivudine/Zidovudine Tablet, Dispersible 30mg/60mg
Daclatasvir (dihydrochloride)/Sofosbuvir Tablet, Film-coated 60mg/400mg Ritonavir Tablet, Film-coated 25mg
Sofosbuvir/Velpatasvir Tablet, Film-coated 400mg/100mg Abacavir (sulfate)/Lamivudine Tablet, Film-coated 600mg/300mg
Atazanavir (sulfate) Capsules, hard 150mg Dolutegravir (Sodium) Tablet, Film-coated 50mg
Atazanavir (sulfate) Capsules, hard 300mg Darunavir (ethanolate) Tablet, Film-coated 800mg
Lamivudine Tablet 300mg Darunavir (ethanolate) Tablet, Film-coated 600mg
Abacavir (sulfate) Tablet 300mg Sulfamethoxazole/Trimethoprim Tablet 400mg/80mg
Zidovudine Tablet 300mg Sulfamethoxazole/Trimethoprim Tablet 800mg/160mg
Abacavir (sulfate)/Lamivudine/Zidovudine Tablet 300mg/150mg/300mg Dolutegravir (Sodium)/Lamivudine/Tenofovir
Tablet, Film-coated 50mg/300mg/300mg
disoproxil fumarate
Lamivudine/Zidovudine Tablet, Film-coated 150mg/300mg
Flucytosine Tablet 500mg
Efavirenz Tablet, Film-coated 600mg
Lopinavir/Ritonavir Granules for Oral suspension 40mg/10mg
Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate Tablet, Film-coated 300mg
Efavirenz/Lamivudine/Tenofovir disoproxil
Tablet, Film-coated 400mg/300mg/300mg
Lamivudine/Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate Tablet, Film-coated 300mg/300mg fumarate
Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate Tablet, Film-coated 200mg/300mg Flucytosine Tablet 250mg
Lamivudine/Nevirapine/Zidovudine Tablet, Film-coated 150mg/200mg/300mg Flucytosine Tablet 500mg
Lamivudine/Nevirapine/Zidovudine Tablet, Dispersible 30mg/50mg/60mg Dolutegravir (Sodium) Tablet, Dispersible 10mg
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Tablet, Film-coated 600mg/200mg/300mg Efavirenz Tablet 50mg
Efavirenz/Lamivudine/Tenofovir disoproxil Tablet, Film-coated 600mg/300mg/300mg Efavirenz Tablet, Film-coated 100mg
Therapeutic Hepatitis Influenze Reproductive Oncology
Area Legend HIV/AIDS Malaria Tuberculosis
Sources WHO Pre-Qualification list as per 3/23/21
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 79
PRODUCTS ON THE WHO PREQUALIFICATION LIST (continued)
International nonproprietary name (INN) Dosage form & strength International nonproprietary name (INN) Dosage form & strength
Oseltamivir (phosphate) Capsules, hard 75mg Powder for concentrate for solution for
Trastuzumab
infusion 150mg
Artemether/Lumefantrine Tablet 20mg/120mg
Powder for concentrate for solution for
Trastuzumab
Artemether/Lumefantrine Tablet 40mg/240mg infusion 420mg
Ethinylestradiol/Levonorgestrel Tablet, Sugar coated 30mcg/150mcg
Levonorgestrel Tablet 1.5mg Global manufacturing network:
GLOBAL SCALE, LOCAL PRESENCE
Levonorgestrel Tablet 750mcg
Ethinylestradiol/Levonorgestrel + Placebo Tablet, Sugar coated 30mcg/150mcg + 0mg Developed Markets Emerging Markets Greater China JANZ
Desogestrel/Ethinylestradiol Tablet 0.150mg/0.030mg France (3) Egypt (1) China (1) Australia (1)
Ethinylestradiol/Levonorgestrel Tablet Germany (1) India (15) Japan (1)
Ethinylestradiol/Levonorgestrel + Ferrous
+ Placebo (Ferrous Fumarate Tablet)
Fumarate Italy (1) South Africa (1)
30mcg/150mcg + 75mg
Ireland (5) Turkey (1)
Desogestrel/Ethinylestradiol Tablet +
Desogestrel/Ethinylestradiol + Placebo
Placebo Tablet 150mcg/30mcg + 0mcg Hungary (1) Zambia (1)
Levonorgestrel Tablet, Film-coated 0.03mg U.S. (9)
Medroxyprogesterone acetate Suspension for injection 150mg
Isoniazid Tablet 300mg
Moxifloxacin (hydrochloride) Tablet, Film-coated 400mg
Cycloserine Capsules, hard 250mg
Isoniazid Tablet 100mg
Linezolid Tablet, Film-coated 600mg
Pretomanid Tablet 200mg
Therapeutic Hepatitis Influenze Reproductive Oncology
Area Legend HIV/AIDS Malaria Tuberculosis
Sources WHO Pre-Qualification list as per 3/23/21
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 80
COLLABORATING TO ADVANCE SUSTAINABLE ACCESS TO MEDICINE
Below are examples of our collaborations. This list is not all-inclusive.
COMMERCE ORGANIZATIONS Biosimilars Canada Biosimilars Forum BioWV Medicines for Europe MANUFACTURING ASSOCIATIONS
AMCHAM (American Chamber Biosimilars Forum Medicines for Ireland Alliance for Global Pharmaceutical Serialization
of Commerce) BOGIN (Netherlands Association for Neprofarm (Dutch association representing AMR Industry Alliance
BCIU (Business Council for Biosimilars and Generic Medicines) manufacturers of selfcare products)
CII (Confederation of Indian Industries)
International Understanding) CGPA (Canadian Generic Pharmaceutical Consumer Healthcare Products New Zealand
FPMAJ (Federation of Pharmaceutical
FICCI (Federation of Indian Chambers Association) Pharmig (Austrian Pharmaceutical Manufacturer’s Association of Japan)
of Commerce & Industry) Council for Healthcare and Pharma Front Industry Association)
Global Pharmaceutical Manufacturing
PHARMEXICIL (Pharmaceutical Export EFPIA (European Federation of Prognerika (German Generic Association) Leadership Forum
Promotion Council) Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations)
SINFAR (Union of Pharmacists) ISPE (International Society for
USIBC (US-India Business Council) FGL (The Association for Generic SINDUSFARMA (Industry Syndicate of Pharmaceutical Engineering)
USISPF (US India Strategic Pharmaceuticals and Biosimilar, Sweden) Pharmaceutical Products in the State of BaH (German Medicines
Partnership Forum) FOPE (Federation of Pharma Entrepreneurs) São Paolo) Manufacturers’ Association)
U.S. Chamber of Commerce GEMME (French Generics-maker Association) INFECTIOUS DISEASE PARTNERS National Association of Manufacturers
GLOBAL PUBLIC HEALTH GBMA (Australia Generic and Biosimilar Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association
Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation
ORGANIZATIONS Medicines Association) of Tokyo (PMAT)
Clinton Health Access Initiative
GENAS (Slovak Association of Generic producers) Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI)
U.N. Global Compact
GBCHealth
IDMA (Indian Drug manufacturers Association)
WHO (World Health Organization) PRODUCT ASSOCIATIONS
Global Fund to Fight AIDS, TB, and
IGBA (International Generic and Biosimilar
INDUSTRY ASSOCIATIONS Medicine Association) Malaria AESGP (Association of the European Self
International AIDS Society Medication Industry)
AESEG (Spanish Generic IGL (Danish Generic and Biosimilars
Medicines Association) Medicines Industry Association) OPTIMIZE Consortium Consumer Healthcare Products Association
APOGEN (Portuguese Association of Ihoken (Medical Insurance System UNAIDS Consumer Health Products Canada WSMI
Generic Medicines and Biosimilars) Study Conference) (World Self Medication Industry)
President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS
AssoGenerici (Italy Association of Generic MEDICINES ASSOCIATIONS Relief (PEPFAR) PROFESSIONAL ORGANIZATIONS
Medicines and Biosimilars)
St. Stephen’s AIDS Trust
JBSA (Japan Biosimilar Association) Canadian Association of Professionals in
BAH (German Medicines Manufacturers’
TB Alliance Regulatory Affairs (CAPRA)
JGA (Japan Generic Medicines Association)
Association)
UNITAID Regulatory Affairs Professional Society (RAPS)
Läkemedelsindustriföreningen (Trade
BG Pharma (Bulgarian Generic
association for the research based ViiV Healthcare PPSWG (Pharmaceutical Product Stewardship
Pharmaceutical Association)
pharmaceutical industry, Sweden) Working Group)
The Clinton Health Matters Initiative
BGMA (British Generic
Medaxes (Belgian Association of American College of Cardiology World Psychiatric
Manufacturers Association)
Pharmaceutical Companies) Association (WPA)
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 81
QUALITY AND REGULATORY MEDIA/TECHNOLOGY/DATA Cystic Fibrosis Foundation
AUTHORITIES ANALYSIS Diabetes Leadership Council
INDUSTRY PARTNERS
Drug Information Association (DIA) Health News MinaCare Diabetes Sisters
Atomo Diagnostics
FDA Alumni Association and Alliance for Stronger Now Sail Campaign Diatribe
Biocon
FDA
EM NCD Think Tank
NCD PARTNERS Fujifilm Kyowa Kirin Biologics
FDA Drug Shortage Committee
Endocrine Society
Active Citizenship Network Gilead
GDUFA/BSUFA Implementation/ Negotiation
ESPERITY
Teams Affordable Cancer Care Program Kindeva
European Innovation Partnership on Active
ICH (International Council for Harmonisation) Allergy and Asthma Foundation of America Lupin Phrma Ltd
and Healthy Aging (EIP on AHA)
IPAC-RS (International Pharmaceutical Aerosol American Association for Respiratory Care Mapi Pharma Ltd
For Your Heart Partnership
Consortium on Regulation & Science) American Association of Clinical Endocrinology Natco
MS Focus
Pharmaceutical Science Group (PSG) American Cancer Society Cancer Action Network Otsuka
National Multiple Sclerosis Society
PDA (Parenteral Drug Association) American Diabetes Association Synthon
NCD Alliance (NCDA)
USP (United States Pharmacopeia) American Pharmacists Association Theravance Biopharma Revance
Project chAnGE
WOMEN’S HEALTH American Society of Hospital Pharmacists
Tata Memorial Centre Affordable Care Project
United Nations Population Fund American Thoracic Society The NCD Academy World Heart Federation
Healthy Women ASIA Clinical Networks/HOPE & CRISP Network i-Manage
Tigerlily (breast cancer) Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) Mental The World Organization of Family Doctors
Health Hub (WONCA)
PHILANTHROPY PARTNERS/
Association of Diabetes Care & Education Younger Lives
PRODUCT DONATIONS Specialists
Young Survival Coalition
Dispensary of Hope Beyond Type One (BT1) Zero (prostate cancer advocacy organization)
Americares Boomer Esiason Foundation
NATIONAL/REGIONAL
Direct Relief C3 Collaborating for Health
GOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS
Stanford University’s Global Center for Cardiovascular Health Union of China
Egypt’s Tahya Misr
Gender Equality
CHEST (American College of Chest Physicians)
European Commission
COUNTRY AND STATE Children With Diabetes
GOVERNMENT PARTNERS/ China Public Health Education Media Program EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS
(CHEER)
PROGRAMS Duke-National University of Singapore
Color of Crohn’s & Chronic Illness Inc
India’s National Viral Hepatitis Control Program New York University Abu Dhabi
COPD Foundation
National Health Commission
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 82
GRI Context Index
GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016*
Disclosure Description Cross-Reference or Answer SDG UNGC Principle
Organizational Profile
102-1 Name of the organization Viatris Inc.
p. 9-11, 49-60, 78
102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services
2021 Form 10-K
102-3 Location of headquarters 2021 Form 10-K
p. 4, 79
102-4 Location of operations 8
2021 Form 10-K
p. 77
102-5 Ownership and legal form
2021 Form 10-K
p. 4
102-6 Markets served 3
2021 Form 10-K
p. 4
102-7 Scale of the organization.
2021 Form 10-K
p. 62
102-8 Information on employees and other workers A significant portion of Viatris’ activities are performed
by workers who are employees.
p. 52, 56-60
102-9 Supply chain
2021 Form 10-K
102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 2021 Form 10-K
102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach p. 33-40, 67
102-12 External initiatives p. 4,7, 70, 80-81
102-13 Membership of associations p. 80-81
* Viatris’ 2021 Sustainability Report applies the 2016 version of the GRI Standards; “2016” refers to the Standards issue date, not
the date of information presented in this report. However, Viatris applied the 2018 version of the GRI standards 303 and 403.
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 83
GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016*
Disclosure Description Cross-Reference or Answer SDG UNGC Principle
Strategy
102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker p. 6
102-15 Key impacts, risks and opportunities p. 7-11, 71-72
Ethics and Integrity
p. 2
102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 16 2, 5, 10
Viatris’ Mission | Viatris’ Code of Business Ethics and Conduct
p. 75
102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics
Viatris’ Code of Business Ethics and Conduct
Governance
102-18 Governance structure 2021 Form 10-K
102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics p. 50, 61, 65, 71-74
102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental and social topics p. 48-50 , 53-54, 60
102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 2021 Form 10-K | Viatris’ Leaders | Viatris’ Corporate Governance
Stakeholder Engagement
Community
Customers
Employees
102-40 List of stakeholder groups
Partners
Patients
Shareholders
102-41 Collective bargaining agreements p. 61 3
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders p. 48
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement p. 17-20, 48
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised p. 48
* Viatris’ 2021 Sustainability Report applies the 2016 version of the GRI Standards; “2016” refers to the Standards issue date, not
the date of information presented in this report. However, Viatris applied the 2018 version of the GRI standards 303 and 403.
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 84
GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016*
Disclosure Description Cross-Reference or Answer SDG UNGC Principle
Reporting Practices
102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 2021 Form 10-K
In early 2021, we completed a formal priority issue assessment
to confirm our ESG priorities based on the topics of highest
102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries importance to the company and key stakeholders. We identify
where impacts occur for each priority topic in the Topic Boundary
section (GRI 103) of the GRI Index.
102-47 List of material topics p. 48
In this report, we restated 2020 employee, health and safety
102-48 Restatements of information performance, energy purchased, and greenhouse gas emissions
data due to newly available data.
The information covered in this report does not significantly differ
102-49 Changes in reporting
from previous report coverage.
102-50 Reporting period Jan. 1, 2021 - Dec. 31, 2021
102-51 Date of most recent report May 5, 2021
102-52 Reporting cycle Annual
Should you have questions or feedback, please contact us at
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report
CSR@Viatris.com.
This report has been prepared in accordance with the
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards
GRI Standards: Core option.
102-55 GRI content index p. 82-88
Viatris’ 2021 Sustainability Report has not been assured by a third
102-56 External assurance party. Our reporting to the 2021 CDP Climate Change and Water
Security Programs was verified by an external party.
* Viatris’ 2021 Sustainability Report applies the 2016 version of the GRI Standards; “2016” refers to the Standards issue date, not
the date of information presented in this report. However, Viatris applied the 2018 version of the GRI standards 303 and 403.
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 85
GRI 103: Topics and Topic Boundaries 2016*
Material Topic Management Approach Cross-Reference Relevant External Entities
Economic
GRI 203: Indirect Economic
p. 12-25, 42-47, 76 Communities, Customers, Patients
Impacts 2016
Environmental
GRI 305: Emissions 2016 p. 35-36, 67-68 Communities, Customers, Governments, Shareholders
GRI 308: Supplier Environmental
p. 35-36, 57-59 Customers, Shareholders, Partners
Assessment
Social
GRI 402: Labor/Management
p. 61 Communities, Governments, Shareholders
Relations 2016
GRI 403: Occupational Health
p. 31-33, 65-66 N/A
and Safety 2018
GRI 404: Training and Education
p. 31 N/A
2016
GRI 405: Diversity and Equal
p. 29 Communities, Customers, Patients, Shareholders
Opportunity 2016
GRI 414: Supplier Social
p. 57-60 Customers, Patients, Shareholders
Assessment 2016
GRI 416: Customer Health
p. 18-25, 50-54,56-57, 60 Communities, Customers, Governments, Patients, Shareholders
and Safety 2016
*Viatris’ 2021 Sustainability Report applies the 2016 version of the GRI Standards; “2016” refers to the Standards issue date, not the date of
information presented in this report. However, Viatris applied the 2018 version of the GRI standards 303 and 403.
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 86
GRI 200-400 Topic-Specific Disclosures 2016*
UNGC
Topic Disclosure Description Cross-Reference or Answer SDG
Principle
Economic
GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016** 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 2021 Form 10-K
203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported p. 41-46 1
GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 2016
203-2 Indirect economic impacts p. 49-60 3
Communication and training about anti-corruption
GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016** 205-2 p. 73-77 16 10
policies and procedures
2021 Form 10-K, p 139-147 for a description
Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust,
GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behavior 2016 206-1 of certain legal actions, including those with 16 10
and monopoly practices
antitrust allegations.
Environmental
GRI 302: Energy 2016** 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption p. 34-37, 68 12, 13 8, 9
303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource p. 38-39, 69-70 6, 12 8
303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts p. 38-39, 69-70 6, 12 8
GRI 303: Water and Effluents 2018**
303-3 Water withdrawal p. 69-70 6, 12 8
303-4 Water discharge p. 69-70 6, 12 8
305-1 Scope 1 GHG emissions p. 67-68 12, 13 7, 8
GRI 305: Emissions 2016** 305-2 Scope 2 GHG emissions p. 67-68 12, 13 7, 8
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions p. 67-68 12 7, 8, 9
GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016** 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method p. 70 12 8
306-3 Significant spills p. 69-70 12
No significant fines and non-monetary
GRI 307: Environmental Compliance sanctions for non-compliance with
307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 12
2016** environmental laws and/or regulations
in 2021.
* Viatris’ 2021 Sustainability Report applies the 2016 version of the GRI Standards; “2016” refers to the Standards issue date, not
the date of information presented in this report. However, Viatris applied the 2018 version of the GRI standards 303 and 403.
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
** Additional disclosures not related to material GRI topics.
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 87
UNGC
Topic Disclosure Description Cross-Reference or Answer SDG
Principle
All suppliers must abide by our Supplier Code
GRI 308: Supplier Environmental New suppliers that were screened using
308-1 of Conduct, which includes environmental 12 7, 8, 9
Assessment 2016 environmental criteria
requirements.
Social
401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover p. 64 8 6
GRI 401: Employment 2016**
Full-time benefits not provided to temporary/part-time
401-2 Viatris’ Careers
employees
Minimum notice periods regarding
operational changes impacting employees,
including continued employment, vary across
GRI 402: Labor/Management the company, as determined by legislation,
402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes 8
Relations 2016 local and regional policies and practices,
individual employment contracts, and
collective bargaining agreements,
as applicable.
GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety p. 32-33, 65-66
403-1 Occupational health and safety management system 3, 8
2018** Global Public Health and Safety Policy
p. 65-67
Hazard identification, risk assessment and
403-2
incident investigation
Global Public Health and Safety Policy
403-3 Occupational health services p. 31-33, 65
Worker participation, consultation, and communication
403-4 p. 31-33, 61
on occupational health and safetys
403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety p. 31-33
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 88
UNGC
Topic Disclosure Description Cross-Reference or Answer SDG
Principle
GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety p. 31-33
403-6 Promotion of worker health 3, 8
2018** Viatris’ Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
p. 56-60, 73-77
Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and
403-7
safety impacts directly linked by business relationships
Global Public Health and Safety Policy
403-9 Work-related injuries p. 66 8
GRI 404: Training and Education 2016** 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee p. 31, 51
p. 31, 51
Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition
404-2 8
assistance programs
Viatris’ Careers
Percentage of employees receiving regular performance
404-3 p. 31, 51 6
and career development reviews
GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees p. 63 5 6
1, 2, 3,
GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment 2016** 412-2 Employee training on HR policies or procedures p. 77
4, 5
Operations with local community engagement, impact
GRI 413: Local Communities 2016** 413-1 p. 41-46 1
assessments, and development programs
All suppliers must abide by our Supplier
1, 2, 3, 4,
GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria Code of Conduct, which includes social 8
5, 6, 10
requirements.
GRI 415: Public Policy 2016 415-1 Political contributions p. 76 16 10
As part of our PV program, all products are
Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product
GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 2016 416-1 monitored and assessed for safety impact on 3, 12
and service categories
an ongoing basis.
Requirements for product and service information
GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 2016** 417-1 p. 75-76 3, 12
and labeling
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 89
SUSTAINABILITY ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD: BIOTECHNOLOGY AND PHARMACEUTICALS SUSTAINABILITY ACCOUNTING STANDARD
As part of our efforts to evolve the disclosure regarding our approach and performance around topics that are important to key stakeholders and recognizing the growing integration of ESG
information in investor decision-making, Viatris considered the SASB indicators when developing this report. In the table below we point to relevant content per a set of SASB topics and metrics,
selected per our industry classification according to SASB. Also, some SASB metrics are omitted due to certain data being confidential or not readily available.
SASB Code Metric Details Cross-Reference or Answer
SAFETY OF CLINICAL TRIALS
Discussion, by world region, of management process for ensuring quality and patient safety
HC-BP-210a.1 p. 54-56
during clinical trials
Number of FDA Sponsor Inspections related to clinical trial management and pharmacovigilance Relevant information is provided on p 13 and 62
HC-BP-210a.2
that resulted in: (1) Voluntary Action Indicated (VAI) and (2) Official Action Indicated (OAI) of our 2021 Form 10-K.
We currently do not report this indicator but, to the
Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with clinical trials in
HC-BP-210a.3 extent such legal proceedings exist, none resulted in
developing countries
an award of monetary damages.
ACCESS TO MEDICINE
Description of actions and initiatives to promote access to health care products for priority
HBP-240a.1 p. 17-25, 49
diseases and in priority countries as defined by the Access to Medicine Index
List of products on the WHO List of Prequalified Medicinal Products as part of its Prequalification
HC-BP-240a.2 p. 49, 78
of Medicines Programme (PQP)
AFFORDABILITY AND PRICING
Number of settlements of Abbreviated New Drug Application (ANDA) litigation that involved
We currently do not report this indicator, but there
HC-BP-240b.1 payments and/or provisions to delay bringing an authorized generic product to market for a
were no such settlements.
defined time period
Percentage change in: (1) average list price (2) average net price across U.S. product portfolio
HC-BP-240b.2 Relevant information is provided on p. 17-25, 71.
compared to previous year
Percentage change in: (1) list price (2) net price of product with largest increase compared to
HC-BP-240b.3 Relevant information is provided on p. 17-25, 71.
previous year
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 90
SASB Code Metric Details Cross-Reference or Answer
DRUG SAFETY
One Batch of Semglee® (insulin glargine injection),
100 units/mL (U-100), 3 mL Prefilled Pens, Due to the
List of products listed in the Food and Drug Administration’s (FDA) MedWatch Safety Alerts for Potential for a Missing Label in the Batch
HC-BP-250a.1
Human Medical Products database One Batch of Insulin Glargine (Insulin glargine-yfgn)
Injection, 100 units/mL (U-100), Due to the Potential
for a Missing Label in the Batch
HC-BP-250a.2 Number of fatalities associated with products as reported in the FDA Adverse Event Reporting System Relevant information is provided on p. 53-54.
We currently do not report this indicator,
HC-BP-250a.3 Number of recalls issued, total units recalled
but relevant information is provided on p. 54.
We currently do not report this indicator,
HC-BP-250a.4 Total amount of product accepted for takeback, reuse, or disposal
but relevant information is provided on p. 70.
There have been no formal enforcement
Number of FDA enforcement actions taken in response to violations of current proceedings; for examples of FDA observations
HC-BP-250a.5
Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP), by type and official agency correspondence to the
Company, see page 53 of the 2021 Form 10-K.
COUNTERFEIT DRUGS
Description of methods and technologies used to maintain traceability of products throughout
HC-BP-260a.1 p. 56-57
the supply chain and prevent counterfeiting
Discussion of process for alerting customers and business partners of potential or known risks Relevant information is provided on p. 56-57
HC-BP-260a.2
associated with counterfeit products and p. 30 of our 2021 Form 10-K.
Number of actions that led to raids, seizure, arrests, and/or filing of criminal charges related to Relevant information is provided on p. 56-57
HC-BP-260a.3
counterfeit products and p. 30 of our 2021 Form 10-K.
ETHICAL MARKETING
We currently do not report this indicator but, to the
Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with false marketing
HC-BP-270a.1 extent such legal proceedings exist, none resulted in
claims
an award of monetary damages.
Promotional activities and materials must never
HC-BP-270a.2 Description of code of ethics governing promotion of off-label use of products involve promotion of drugs for off-label indications,
uses, doses or populations.
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 91
SASB Code Metric Details Cross-Reference or Answer
EMPLOYEE RECRUITMENT, DEVELOPMENT AND RETENTION
Discussion of talent recruitment and retention efforts for scientists and research and
HC-BP-330a.1 p. 25-31
development personnel
1) Voluntary and (2) involuntary turnover rate for: (a) executives/senior managers,
HC-BP-330a.2 p. 64
(b) mid-level managers, (c) professionals, and (d) all others
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
Percentage of (1) entity’s facilities and (2) Tier I suppliers’ facilities participating in the Rx-360
HC-BP-510a.2 International Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Consortium audit program or equivalent third-party p. 52, 57-60
audit programs for integrity of supply chain and ingredients
BUSINESS ETHICS
We currently do not report this indicator but, to the
Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with corruption
HC-BP-510a.1 extent such legal proceedings exist, none resulted in
and bribery
an award of monetary damages.
HC-BP-510a.2 Description of code of ethics governing interactions with health care professionals p. 74-76
ACTIVITY METRICS
HC-BP-000.A Number of patients treated p. 4, 17-25
HC-BP-000.B Number of drugs (1) in portfolio and (2) in research and development (Phases 1-3) p. 4, 49
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 92
TASK FORCE ON CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES
We recognize the need for relevant information on management of climate change risks and opportunities. We are continuing to incorporate the recommendations by the Task Force on Climate-
related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) into our energy and climate change strategies and disclosures. As part of establishing our baseline and goals, we will also enhance our alignment with these
recommendations. The table below provides a guide of where we provide relevant information. Our climate and water responses to the CDP are available on CDP’s public responses page and
provide more comprehensive information.
TCFD THEMATIC AREA CROSS-REFERENCE OR ANSWER
p. 65
Governance
CDP Response (C.1.1b, C1.2, C1.3.1)
p. 34-37, 67
Strategy
CDP Response (C2.1a, C2.3, C2.4,C3.1, C3.2, C3.2a, C3.3)
p. 34, 65-67
Risk Management
CDP Response (C2.1, C2.2, C2.2a)
p. 35-36, 67-68
Metrics and Targets
CDP Response (C4.1, C4.2, C5.2, C6.1, C6.3, C6.5, C7.1-6, C8.2, C9.1, C10.1, C11.2)
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
Introduction COVID-19 Response Access and Global Health Employees Environment Community Management Disclosure and Data Appendix GRI, SASB and TCFD 93
Forward-Looking Statements • the ability to attract and retain key personnel;
This document contains “forward-looking statements”. These statements are made pursuant to the • the Company’s liquidity, capital resources and ability to obtain financing;
safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking • any regulatory, legal or other impediments to the Company’s ability to bring new products to
statements may include, without limitation, statements about initial sustainability goals; statements market, including but not limited to “at-risk launches”;
about the pending transaction between Viatris and Biocon Biologics Limited (“Biocon Biologics”)
pursuant to which Viatris will contribute its biosimilar products and programs to Biocon Biologics • success of clinical trials and the Company’s or its partners’ ability to execute on new product
in exchange for cash consideration and a convertible preferred equity interest in Biocon Biologics opportunities and develop, manufacture and commercialize products;
(the “Biocon Biologics Transaction”); statements about the transaction pursuant to which Mylan N.V. • any changes in or difficulties with the Company’s manufacturing facilities, including with respect
(“Mylan”) combined with Pfizer Inc.’s Upjohn business (the “Upjohn Business”) in a Reverse Morris to inspections, remediation and restructuring activities, supply chain or inventory or the ability to
Trust transaction (the “Combination”) and Upjohn Inc. became the parent entity of the combined meet anticipated demand;
Upjohn Business and Mylan business and was renamed “Viatris Inc.”, the benefits and synergies of
• the scope, timing and outcome of any ongoing legal proceedings, including government inquiries or
the Combination or our global restructuring program, future opportunities for the Company and its
investigations, and the impact of any such proceedings on the Company;
products and any other statements regarding the Company’s future operations, financial or operating
results, capital allocation, dividend policy and payments, debt ratio and covenants, anticipated • any significant breach of data security or data privacy or disruptions to our information technology
business levels, future earnings, planned activities, anticipated growth, market opportunities, systems;
strategies, competitions, commitments, confidence in future results, efforts to create, enhance or
• risks associated with having significant operations globally;
otherwise unlock the value of our unique global platform, and other expectations and targets for
future periods. Forward-looking statements may often be identified by the use of words such as • the ability to protect intellectual property and preserve intellectual property rights;
“will”, “may”, “could”, “should”, “would”, “project”, “believe”, “anticipate”, “expect”, “plan”, “estimate”,
• changes in third-party relationships;
“forecast”, “potential”, “pipeline”, “intend”, “continue”, “target”, “seek” and variations of these words or
comparable words. Because forward-looking statements inherently involve risks and uncertainties, • the effect of any changes in the Company’s or its partners’ customer and supplier relationships and
actual future results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking customer purchasing patterns, including customer loss and business disruption being greater than
statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to: expected following the Combination;
• the Biocon Biologics Transaction may not achieve its intended benefits; • the impacts of competition, including decreases in sales or revenues as a result of the loss of
market exclusivity for certain products;
• the integration of Mylan and the Upjohn Business or the implementation of the Company’s
global restructuring program being more difficult, time consuming or costly than expected; • changes in the economic and financial conditions of the Company or its partners;
• the possibility that the Company may be unable to achieve expected benefits, synergies and • uncertainties regarding future demand, pricing and reimbursement for the Company’s products;
operating efficiencies in connection with the Combination or its global restructuring program
• uncertainties and matters beyond the control of management, including but not limited to general
within the expected timeframe or at all;
political and economic conditions, inflation rates and global exchange rates; and
• the possibility that the Company may be unable to successfully integrate Mylan and the Upjohn
• inherent uncertainties involved in the estimates and judgments used in the preparation of financial
Business or implement its global restructuring program;
statements, and the providing of estimates of financial measures, in accordance with U.S. GAAP
• operational or financial difficulties or losses associated with the Company’s reliance on and related standards or on an adjusted basis.
agreements with Pfizer in connection with the Combination, including with respect to transition
For more detailed information on the risks and uncertainties associated with Viatris, see the risks
services;
described in Part I, Item 1A of Viatris’ Annual Report on form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021,
• the possibility that the Company may be unable to achieve all intended benefits of its strategic as amended, and our other filings with the SEC.
initiatives;
You can access Viatris’ filings with the SEC through the SEC website at www.sec.gov or through our
• the potential impact of public health outbreaks, epidemics and pandemics, including the ongoing website, and Viatris strongly encourages you to do so. Viatris routinely posts information that may
challenges and uncertainties posed by the COVID-19 pandemic; be important to investors on our website at investor.viatris.com, and we use this website address
as a means of disclosing material information to the public in a broad, non-exclusionary manner for
• the Company’s failure to achieve expected or targeted future financial and operating
purposes of the SEC’s Regulation Fair Disclosure (Reg FD). Viatris undertakes no obligation to update any
performance and results;
statements herein for revisions or changes after the date of this document, which is May 9, 2022, other
• actions and decisions of healthcare and pharmaceutical regulators; than as required by law.
• changes in relevant laws and regulations, including but not limited to changes in tax, healthcare and
pharmaceutical laws and regulations globally (including the impact of potential tax reform in the U.S.);
2021 Viatris Sustainability Report
1
2021 Sustainability Report
© 2022 Viatris Inc. All Rights Reserved.
VIATRIS, the Viatris Logo, the Global Healthcare Gateway logo and PARTNEROF CHOICE are trademarks and GLOBAL
HEALTHCARE GATEWAY is a registered trademark of Mylan Inc., a Viatris company.
