Viatris 2022 Sustainability Report Highlights
Sustainability is foundational for our mission and relevance.
To make progress on our mission and successfully deliver on We have a mission to empower
our strategy and business model to build access to medicine people worldwide to live healthier
and create long-term value, we continually work to advance at every stage of life via:
sustainable operations and responsible practices. At VIATRISTM,
Access: Providing high-quality
we are committed to addressing key environmental, social
trusted medicines, regardless
and governance matters by leveraging our collective expertise
of geography or circumstance
and partnerships, recognizing that our actions affect the
Leadership: Advancing
stakeholders and communities we serve.
sustainable operations
Access to medicine is at the core of our mission and begins with and innovative solutions to
sustainably delivering high-quality medicines and health solutions improve patient health
at scale to people, regardless of geography or circumstance.
Partnership: Leveraging
Viatris is a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact and our collective expertise to
is committed to the Compact’s 10 principles related to human connect people to products
rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption and supports and services
the UN Sustainable Development Goals.
Our Sustainability Goals
These priority areas and initial goals support our sustained operations and our contribution to help advance the global sustainable
development goals for 2030, and help us proactively address evolving expectations from stakeholders. To achieve these objectives,
diligent work must happen in both the short and the long-term, touching all of us at Viatris.
ACCESS DIVERSITY, EQUITY AND INCLUSION
PROVIDING ACCESS to ARVs ENGAGING EMPLOYEES ON DEI
GOAL: Provide antiretroviral (ARV) therapy equivalent to a total of 30 GOAL: Engage at least 90% of employees globally on diversity, equity and
million patients, including more than 2 million children living with HIV/AIDS, inclusion (DEI) learning by the end of 2023.
between 2022 and the end of 2025.
INCREASING DIVERSITY IN MANAGEMENT
PROMOTING HCP EDUCATION AND OUTREACH
GOAL: Increase diversity in management:
GOAL: Impact 100 million patients via healthcare professional (HCP) • Increase women’s representation in senior management globally to at
education and outreach regarding prevention, diagnosis and treatment least 35% by the end of 2027.
options for noncommunicable diseases (NCDs) including cardiovascular
• At least double Black representation in all management levels in the
disease, diabetes, cancer and other important chronic conditions to improve U.S. by the end of 2027.
outcomes through the NCD Academy by the end of 2025.
• At least double Hispanic/Latinx representation in senior management
in the U.S. by the end of 2027.
ENVIRONMENT
PERFORMING WATER RISK ASSESSMENTS REDUCING GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS
GOAL: Perform water risk assessments for all locations in high or GOAL: Viatris commits to reduce absolute scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas
extremely-high water risk areas as identified by the World Resource Institute (GHG) emissions 42% by 2030 from a 2020 base year*. Viatris also commits
and identify appropriate water conservation initiatives by 2025. to reduce absolute scope 3 GHG emissions covering purchased goods and
services, capital goods, fuel and energy related activities, and upstream
INCREASING ZERO LANDFILL LOCATIONS transportation and distribution by 25% within the same timeframe.
GOAL: Achieve a 50% increase in the number of zero landfill *The target boundary includes land-related emissions and removal from
locations by 2030. bioenergy feedstock.
©2023 Viatris Inc. All Rights Reserved. VIATRIS and the Viatris Logo are trademarks of Mylan Inc., a Viatris Company.
Our sustainability goals are forward-looking targets. Actual results may differ from current projections.
Building Sustainable Access to Medicine
ACCESS AND GLOBAL HEALTH
At Viatris, we believe that access is incredibly personal. It is fundamental to our mission and a universal need and right,
especially important in challenging times.
~1 billion Sold more than 80 billion >250 medicines on the WHO 62 products on the WHO
patients served1 doses of medicine across Essential Medicines List to help Prequalification List, which allows
more than 165 countries address priority healthcare needs for U.N. and other multilateral donor
and territories, reaching as defined by the WHO procurement, as well as accelerated
about 90% of low- and lower registration processes in low- and
middle-income countries lower middle- income countries
OUR PEOPLE
Viatris colleagues are passionate about our mission. Together, we are building a performance-driven, highly engaging and inclusive
culture where diverse perspectives drive access, innovation and our ability to make an impact in the world.
We have more than 38,000 colleagues 89% participation rate in Viatris’
across almost 70 countries2 first-ever Voice Survey
ENVIRONMENT COMMUNITY
Viatris colleagues around the world know that human health Giving back to our communities is something our colleagues
and environmental health are closely interconnected. We are at Viatris take seriously – and often, personally. Just as global
committed to doing our part to advance sustainable practices societal issues, the environment and the strength of our
and minimize our environmental footprint while ensuring workplaces are vital to human health, so too is the wellbeing
reliable access to medicine. of our communities. People can truly be empowered to live
healthier when their communities are thriving
The Science Based Target Initiative (SBTi) independently
assessed and approved our near-term science-based Donated more than 450 million doses of medicines
greenhouse gas emissions reduction targets to cut scope through our partners around the world
1 and 2 emissions by 42% by 2030 and scope 3 emissions
by 25% by 2030. Donated a total of $1 million to aid
in supporting access to healthcare,
food security and water stewardship
in communities around the world
through four organizations: Direct
Relief, World Central Kitchen (WCK),
WaterAid and World Food Program
USA, the U.S. partner of the United Nations
World Food Programme
The Viatris 2022 Sustainability Report also has a management disclosure and performance data section, which includes detailed information about
policies, procedures, management systems as well as performance data. Visit viatris.com to learn more.
1 The number of patients served is an estimate calculated using internal sales data (global volume of
doses sold in 2022 in all markets as aligned with IQVIA standard units), divided by estimated per patient
usage, which is based on treatment dose, treatment duration, and treatment adherence as estimated by
Viatris Medical Affairs based on approved label indication and instructions for use, current international
guideline recommendations, and common usage in clinical practice. Patients using multiple Viatris
Viatris.com LinkedIn Twitter @ViatrisInc YouTube Listen Well
medicines may be counted as multiple patients. Certain adjustments were applied in consideration of
©a2n02n3o Vuiantrcise Indc .d Aillv Reigshttist Ruerseersv eadn. VdIA tToRI Sa acncdo tuhen Vti aftorirs Laocgoc earpet tarabdleem aarlktse orfn Maytlaivn eInsc .t, oa Vtihateri sp Caomtipeannty .usage factors noted Podcast
above, and rounded to the nearest hundred million. Estimates may be subject to reassessment.
2Excludes contingent workers © 2023 Viatris Inc. All Rights Reserved. VIATRIS and the Viatris Logo are trademarks of Mylan Inc., a Viatris Company.
