2023
Corpora te Responsibility
Sustainability
&
Report
Table of Contents
Letter From Ryan McInerney 2 ENABLING TRUSTED COMMERCE OPERATING RESPONSIBLY
& PROTECTING CUSTOMERS
FY23 Visa CR&S Performance Highlights 3 Corporate Governance 65
Payments Security 25
Visa CR&S Goals and FY23 Progress 4 Ethics & Compliance 67
Cybersecurity 27
About This Report 6 Engaging with Governments 68
Responsible Data Use 29
Forward-Looking Statements 7 Tax Compliance & Governance 69
Data Privacy 30
Responsible Sourcing 70
OUR COMPANY Responsible Use of Artificial Intelligence 31
Human Rights 71
Corporate Profile 9 Visa's AI Principles 33
Our Corporate Responsibility Transaction Integrity 34 APPENDIX
& Sustainability Approach 10
Greenhouse Gas Emissions
Relevant Memberships 12 INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE Verification Statement 74
Select Corporate Recognition 12 Employee Talent, Growth & Learning 36 Task Force on Climate-Related
Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Index 75
Inclusion & Diversity 39
EMPOWERING PEOPLE, Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index 76
COMMUNITIES & ECONOMIES Employee Engagement 43
Sustainability Accounting Standards
Empowering Small Visa Total Rewards 45 Board (SASB) Content Index 83
& Micro Businesses (SMBs) 14
Employee Safety & Security 47 World Economic Forum (WEF)
Empowering People 18 Content Index 85
Select Corporate Recognition 47
Empowering Communities 21 Performance Data Table 87
PROTECTING THE PLANET
Sustainable Operations 50
Sustainable Movement 56
Climate Tech Solutions 62
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report
Letter From Ryan McInerney
Reflecting on 2023, our role as an enabler of commerce, Enabling Trusted Commerce Protecting the Planet
connecting billions of buyers and sellers across more and Protecting Customers
We are committed to protecting the planet and reducing
than 200 countries and territories has helped us further
The fraud landscape is more complicated and our environmental impact. Across our global facilities
our purpose to uplift everyone, everywhere by being the
sophisticated than ever, with threat actors leveraging and data centers, we achieved a 24 percent reduction
best way to pay and be paid. We have a responsibility to
innovative technologies to uncover new vulnerabilities in our scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions
use our scale, reach, and expertise to enable individuals,
across the payment ecosystem. At Visa, we are from FY20 and maintained our carbon neutrality and
businesses, and economies to thrive.
committed to safeguarding our customers and their 100 percent renewable energy use. We also supported
We continue to be committed to demonstrating the data from fraud and cyber attacks. Our technology several initiatives to drive the transition to a lower-carbon
important role we play in being a force for good by investments of over $11 billion over the last five years have economy, including enabling sustainable commerce and
operating responsibly and ethically. Our products and enabled us to prevent $40 billion in fraud-related losses in helping consumers and businesses track and reduce their
solutions enable global commerce to happen and 2023, and to offer seamless and secure transactions across carbon footprints.
expand the possibilities for the billions of consumers and our payment network. We also continued our work to
Operating Responsibly
millions of merchants who use our solutions every day. empower our customers and partners with the knowledge
Throughout 2023, we made progress across our focus and tools they need to stay safe online and promote At Visa, we are committed to acting with integrity,
areas in corporate responsibility and sustainability and in security standards and best practices. transparency, and accountability in everything we do.
this report, you will read about how we delivered on our For the twelfth consecutive year, Ethisphere named Visa
Investing in Our People
purpose and values. one of the World's Most Ethical Companies, honoring
Our people are our greatest asset, and we are proud to our ethics and culture. We also earned a perfect score of
Empowering People, Communities
have a diverse, engaged, and talented global workforce. 100 from the CPA–Zicklin Index for our corporate political
and Economies
We have created an environment where our employees donation transparency and a “Trendsetter” title for the
Small and micro businesses (SMBs) are the foundation of can thrive, learn, and innovate, and 95 percent of them eighth year running.
communities around the world. In 2020, we set a goal to have told us they are proud to work for Visa. We are
digitally enable 50 million SMBs. By the end of 2023, we continuously looking for ways to further enhance our All of these achievements reflect our unwavering
far exceeded this goal, digitally enabling nearly 67 million culture and ways of working. In 2023, we refreshed our dedication to empower more people, businesses, and
SMBs, including 27 million in 2023 alone. We also remain Visa Leadership Principles, which define how we work governments to benefit from digital payments. As we look
committed to supporting gender diverse and inclusive together, how we drive growth for our company, and ahead, we are excited about the opportunities that lie
small businesses globally. Visa Foundation committed how we lead change in our industry. Our leadership before us. We look forward to continuing to work together
nearly $25 million in grant funding and $40 million in principles are: Lead courageously, Obsess about to advance our shared goals and create a more inclusive
impact investments to support gender diverse and customers, Collaborate as one Visa, and Execute with and sustainable future for everyone, everywhere. And we
inclusive SMBs. Of the 67 million SMBs we have digitally excellence. We also invested in our employees' learning are confident that with our purpose, strategy, and values,
enabled, an estimated 23 million are women-led. We have and development, with more than 440,000 hours of we can continue to deliver value and make a positive
made great progress, but more work remains to provide training delivered through Visa University and other Digital difference in the world.
these SMBs with the access, tools, and resources required Programs, along with benefits supporting their well-being.
Sincerely,
to help them thrive.
Ryan McInerney
Chief Executive Officer, Visa
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 2
FY23 Visa CR&S Performance Highlights
Delivering on our purpose: Uplift everyone, everywhere by being the best way to pay and be paid
Empowering People, Enabling Trusted Commerce
Communities & Economies & Protecting Customers
~67M $40B
small and micro business (SMBs) digitally enabled, exceeding our goal in fraud-related losses prevented in 2023
to digitally enable 50 million SMBs by 2023
Highest rating
78K
in our sector from Gartner Consulting during 2023 cybersecurity review
employee volunteer hours donated to strengthen communities in which
employees live and work $11B
invested in technology over the last five years, including to reduce fraud
~$25M and ~$40M
and enhance network security
committed in grant funding and impact investments, respectively, by Visa
Foundation to support gender diverse and inclusive small businesses globally
Investing in Our People Protecting the Planet Operating Responsibly
95% 24% 73%
of responding employees report being proud reduction of scope 1 & 2 GHG emissions since FY20 Visa Board combined diversity for gender, race and
to work for Visa ethnicity dimensions
100%
Global pay equity 100%
renewable electricity use maintained for operations
among women and men employees for the same work rating received on CPA-Zicklin Index for Corporate Political
A- Disclosure and Accountability
440K
score on 2023 CDP Climate Change, representing
12
hours spent by Visa employees using available leadership in transparency and performance
learning resources available through Visa University consecutive years of inclusion on Ethisphere’s World’s
and Digital Programs Most Ethical Companies list
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 3
Visa CR&S Goals and FY23 Progress
At Visa, we are committed to helping address sustainable development challenges and create inclusive economies
and a thriving planet. We track progress toward corporate goals and map them to the United Nations (U.N.) Sustainable
Development Goals (SDGs), which provide a blueprint for governments, businesses and civil society organizations
to address the most pressing environmental and social issues globally.
Progress as Contribution
Pillar Focus Area Visa’s Goal
of end of FY23 to the SDGs
SMB Digital Enablement Digitally enable 50M SMBs worldwide by the end of 2023
Empowering People,
Employee Volunteering Engage 25% of employees in volunteering in charitable opportunities
Communities &
Economies
Continue to advance the Visa Foundation as a key pillar in fulfilling Visa’s
Visa Foundation
corporate purpose
Protect the company and acquired entities from cyber threats
Cybersecurity Innovate on cyber capabilities for the company and ecosystem to further advance
our leadership position
Enabling Trusted
Build, deploy and automate a risk technology platform that protects the company
Commerce & Protecting
and the payments ecosystem
Customers
Advance risk management capabilities
Ecosystem Security Develop new solutions to reduce risk and crime while driving strong client
engagement and satisfaction
Continue to provide tools and capabilities to monitor and minimize fraud in the
payments ecosystem
indicates goal has either been met or exceeded as of September 30, 2023
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 4
Visa CR&S Goals and FY23 Progress (cont.)
Progress as Contribution
Pillar Focus Area Visa’s Goal
of end of FY23 to the SDGs
Increase the number of underrepresented employees in the U.S.
Representation of
Underrepresented
Communities—
Workforce
Successfully complete Stand Together program and develop Inclusion & Diversity
Ongoing
strategy for FY24 and beyond
Track, measure, evaluate and report annually on pay equity, including 100%
Investing in Our People Pay Equity of regular, active employees in fully integrated subsidiaries
Improve the employee experience through a new employee value proposition
and refreshed recognition strategy
Roll out a new hybrid work model
Employee Experience
Invest in talent attraction initiatives
Enhance our employee retention, development, training and total
rewards strategies
100% Renewable Maintain 100% renewable electricity and carbon neutral operations and advance
Electricity our aspiration of being a climate positive company
Protecting the Planet
By FY30, reduce absolute scopes 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions by 50%
Greenhouse Gas from a FY20 baseline
Ongoing
Emissions By FY30, reduce absolute scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions by 42%
from a FY20 baseline
Support culture of ethics and compliance by requiring eligible employees to
Culture of Ethics
Operating Responsibly annually complete training on our global policies, programs and initiatives built on
& Compliance
the foundation of the Visa Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
indicates goal has either been met or exceeded as of September 30, 2023
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 5
About This Report
Visa’s 2023 Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability (CR&S) Report describes our corporate responsibility-
and sustainability-related goals and work in five clusters:
1. Empowering People, Communities & Economies
2. Enabling Trusted Commerce & Protecting Customers
3. Investing in Our People
4. Protecting the Planet
5. Operating Responsibly
These five clusters are priority areas that are important to Visa and our stakeholders and through which we seek
to mitigate risk and to create value.
For more information on how Visa identifies these priorities through our materiality process, see the Corporate
Responsibility & Sustainability Approach section of this report. Additional resources on these topics, as well as our
CR&S management, are available on our corporate website.
This report has been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards. Visa discloses relevant
metrics from the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Software & IT Services Sustainability Accounting
Standard, the World Economic Forum (WEF) Stakeholder Capitalism Metrics and the Task Force on Climate-Related
Financial Disclosures (TCFD) recommended disclosures.
This report focuses on Visa’s global CR&S goals and practices. We report data related to Visa’s fiscal year 2023
(October 1, 2022 – September 30, 2023) unless otherwise noted. In some cases, data and information related to our CR&S
priorities may include programs and activities underway or introduced in the 2024 fiscal year. This information is noted
throughout the report as relevant. All references to currency are in U.S. dollars, unless otherwise noted. This is Visa’s ninth
annual Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report. Visa’s previous report was published in April 2023.
Please direct questions on this report or topics related to our CR&S disclosures to sustainability@visa.com.
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 6
Forward-Looking Statements
This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act
of 1995. Forward-looking statements generally relate to future events or our future financial or operating performance,
such as statements regarding our CR&S and ESG priority areas, commitments and work, including goals, targets, metrics,
aspirations and related strategies. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements because they contain
words such as “anticipates,” “aims,” “aspires,” “believes,” “commits,” “estimates,” “expects,” “intends,” “may,” “projects,”
“plans,” “could,” “should,” “will,” “continue” and other similar expressions. All statements other than statements of
historical fact could be forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, are not guarantees of future performance and
are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are beyond our control and are difficult to
predict. These statements may be based on historic or current assumptions, estimates, standards, commitments,
methodologies, targets, diligence, third-party information, internal control frameworks and currently available data,
which continue to develop and evolve. Numbers and percentages used in this report are estimates or approximations.
We describe risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied
by, any of these forward-looking statements in our SEC filings, including our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and
our subsequent reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K. In addition, actual results may vary due to changes in the macroeconomic
and geopolitical environment, technology, weather patterns and climate, regulation and legislation, engagement with
stakeholders, energy prices and other unforeseen events or conditions. Except as required by law, we do not intend to
update or revise any forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Website references and hyperlinks throughout this report are provided for convenience only, and the content on the
referenced websites is not incorporated by reference into this report, nor does it constitute part of this report. We assume
no liability for any third-party content contained on the referenced websites.
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 7
Forward-Looking Statements
Our Company
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 8
Corporate Profile
Visa is one of the world’s leaders in digital payments. Our purpose is to uplift everyone, 2021–2023 Financial Results (GAAP) in millions
everywhere by being the best way to pay and be paid. We facilitate global commerce (except for per share data)
and money movement across more than 200 countries and territories among a global
Fiscal Year Ended September 30
set of consumers, merchants, financial institutions and government entities through
innovative technologies.
2021 2022 2023
Since Visa’s early days, we have been in the business of facilitating payments between
Net revenue $24,105 $29,310 $32,653
consumers and businesses. We are focused on extending, enhancing and investing in
our proprietary advanced transaction processing network, VisaNet, to offer a single
Operating expenses $8,301 $10,497 $11,653
connection point for facilitating payment transactions to multiple endpoints through
various form factors. Now as a network of networks enabling global movement of money Operating income $15,804 $18,813 $21,000
through all available networks, we are working to provide payment solutions and services
for everyone, everywhere. Through our network, we offer products, solutions and Net income $12,311 $14,957 $17,273
services that facilitate secure, reliable and efficient money movement for participants
Shareholder’s equity $37,589 $35,581 $38,733
in the ecosystem.
Diluted class A common stock earnings per share $5.63 $7.00 $8.28
To learn more about Visa’s operating model and value chain, please refer to the
Our Core Business section of the 2023 Annual Report.
2023 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 9
Visa at a Glance Our Corporate Responsibility
& Sustainability Approach
Purpose
Uplift everyone, everywhere by being the best way
to pay and be paid
Visa is committed to operating as a responsible, ethical, In 2023, the Board, in full and in individual committees,
inclusive and sustainable company. As a trusted network discussed a range of CR&S topics, including, but not
Headquarters
and global leader in digital payments, Visa strives to join limited to:
San Francisco
with clients, partners and other stakeholders to empower
• Leadership transition and succession planning
Regional Hubs people, businesses and communities to thrive.
Foster City, Miami, Singapore, Dubai, London • Human capital management, including talent
Oversight recruitment and retention and inclusion and diversity
• Environmental sustainability and climate goals
Visa believes in the importance of strong layers of
and progress
governance to ensure proper guidance and oversight
144
• Board composition, skills and diversity
across our approach to Corporate Responsibility and
Sustainability (CR&S). • Board risk oversight, including cybersecurity, data
Global Offices and Data Centers
privacy, artificial intelligence and brand and reputation
We manage these activities at a functional level across
~28,800
• Executive compensation program and philosophy
our strategic and operational areas, with executive
and Board oversight. Visa’s Vice Chair, Chief People
Employe es
Materiality4
and Corporate Affairs Officer, leads the coordination of
oversight and development of our global CR&S efforts.
We conduct formal materiality analyses biennially to
At the management level, a cross-functional group
Visa Network gather the perspectives of both internal and external
of more than a dozen senior leaders contributes to
(as of September 30, 2023) stakeholders on CR&S issues. This is primarily done
coordinating our CR&S strategy and reporting efforts.
through a combination of interviews, assessment of
• 14,500 financial institution clients
At the Board level, the Nominating and Corporate stockholder feedback, employee surveys, customer and
• More than 130 million merchant locations Governance Committee has formal responsibility to client engagement and various other methods across
worldwide1 ,2
oversee and review our management of CR&S matters, different business units and geographies. We integrate
• 4.3 billion Visa credentials overall CR&S strategy, stakeholder engagement, these findings with analyses of voluntary frameworks
formal reporting and policies and programs in specific and standards, including GRI, SASB and TCFD, and the
• 213 billion total transactions processed3
areas, including environmental sustainability, climate expectations of various ratings agencies. We also consider
• $15 trillion total payments and cash volume3
change, human rights, political contributions and relevant industry news, trends and thought leadership.
lobbying activities and expenditures, social impact and
philanthropy. For more on the responsibilities of the
1. Including an estimated 30 million locations through payment facilitators,
which are technology providers that provide payment acceptance services Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, 4. In this report, our use of the terms “material,” “materiality” and other similar terms refers to
to merchants on behalf of acquirers. materiality within the context of our CR&S programs and priorities. We are not using these
2. Data provided to Visa by acquiring institutions and other third parties as of please refer to the Committee Charter. terms as they are used under the securities or other laws of the United States or any other
June 30, 2023. jurisdiction or as these terms are used in the context of financial statements and financial
3. 12 months ended September 30, 2023. reporting.
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 10
We believe our approach works to ensure that our CR&S We anticipate completing the assessment in fiscal year • Government and policy official direct engagement,
strategy and initiatives are focused on the issues most 2024. We plan to review outcomes with executive testimony before government bodies, participation as
impactful to our internal and external stakeholders, as leadership and share related disclosures in future reports. panelists at policy gatherings and industry association
well as our long-term business success. While we take memberships and participation.
Going forward, in accordance with EFRAG guidance,
action across the identified topics, we prioritize those
• Civil society organizations: direct engagement,
Visa may determine that off-cycle updates to the DMA
with the highest potential impact and importance to our
conferences and events, memberships in initiatives and
are needed. This may be required if there are material
stakeholders and our business.
individual partnerships.
changes to Visa’s organizational and operational structure,
Our most recent materiality assessment was carried or if there have been material changes in various external • Local communities: supporting small and micro
out in 2021 and forms the foundation of our current factors that could generate new or modify existing businesses, employee giving and volunteering,
strategy. The results from this assessment, coupled with impacts, risks and opportunities that could impact the community giving from Visa and Visa Foundation and
additional inputs described above, validated findings relevance of a specific disclosure. humanitarian and disaster relief, direct engagement,
from prior years and reaffirmed that internal and external surveys and digital communication.
stakeholders largely agreed with our identified priority Stakeholder Engagement
• Suppliers: supplier summits, supplier questionnaires
focus areas. We then set strategy around each issue, with
and sustainability management tools, direct supplier
the objective of aligning our efforts based on relative We improve our understanding of stakeholder views and
engagement and memberships with supplier advocacy
prioritization. Our focus is on those key topics identified as concerns and evolve our CR&S strategic priorities across
and certification organizations.
priorities, which are covered in detail in this report. our business through regular engagement with
our stakeholders. Our Board and management team greatly value the
In 2023, we initiated our inaugural “double materiality”
opinions and feedback of our shareholders. We have
assessment (DMA). We updated our methodology to We regularly engage our stakeholders in a variety of ways:
proactive, ongoing engagement with our stockholders
incorporate the 2021 GRI Standards’ emphasis on impact
throughout the year focused on corporate governance,
• Employees: employee surveys, town hall meetings,
materiality, the European Sustainability Reporting
corporate responsibility and sustainability and executive
manager/employee dialogue, employee resource
Standards guidance on double materiality and additional
compensation, in addition to the ongoing dialogue
groups, messaging from senior leadership, digital
guidance on materiality assessment and value chain
among our stockholders and our Chief Executive Officer,
platforms and social media channels.
analysis released by the European Financial Reporting
Chief Financial Officer and Investor Relations team on
Advisory Group (EFRAG). • Clients: client councils, payment forums, client surveys
Visa’s financial and strategic performance. In 2023, our
and direct engagement.
Lead Independent Director also met with top investors
The process was designed to understand and evaluate
• Investors: earnings calls, annual stockholder meeting, to discuss corporate governance, corporate responsibility
Visa’s financial and non-financial impacts on the
direct stockholder engagement, investor conferences, and executive compensation matters.
environment and society, as well as the impact of
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filings,
environmental and social factors on our financial
In 2023, our CR&S-focused engagement with our
disclosures posted on investor.visa.com and ratings
performance. We adapted our existing Enterprise Risk
shareholders included contacting our top 75 investors—
firm profiles.
Management (ERM) framework for evaluating risks to our
representing approximately 65 percent of our outstanding
DMA methodology, involving our ERM team throughout
Class A common stock—to discuss CR&S matters,
so that the DMA results can align with our ERM findings.
including corporate governance, corporate responsibility
and sustainability and executive compensation.
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 11
We held CR&S-focused meetings with over 40 Select Corporate Recognition
institutional shareholders representing approximately 25
percent of our outstanding Class A common stock and Dow Jones Sustainability North America Index
provided the Nominating and Corporate Governance 2023, S&P Global
Committee of the Board of Directors a quarterly update Sustainability Yearbook
on stockholder engagement and feedback. 2024, S&P Global
FTSE4Good Index
Relevant Memberships
2024, FTSE Russell
Visa actively participates in CR&S-related organizations World’s Most Ethical Companies
and peer networks focused on various sustainability 2024, Ethisphere
topics. Key memberships include: World’s Most Admired Companies
2024, Fortune
• Business for Social Responsibility
World’s Most Valuable Global Brands
• Business Roundtable
2023, Brandz
• Centre for Sport and Human Rights
Global RepTrak 100
• Chief Executives for Corporate Purpose 2023, Reputation Institute
• Clean Energy Buyers Association Global 500
• Corporate Eco Forum 2024, Brand Finance
• Council for Inclusive Capitalism MSCI
2024, A Rating
• Ellen MacArthur Foundation
EcoVadis
• Internet Watch Foundation
2023, Silver Medal
• RE100
3BL
• Sustainable Brands
2023, 100 Best Corporate Citizens
• World Business Council for Sustainable Development
TIME
• World Economic Forum 2023, World’s Best Companies
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 12
Empowering People,
Communities & Economies
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 13
Visa is committed to advancing inclusive, equitable and sustainable economic growth for everyone, everywhere.
We focus on reaching people—as individuals, households and business owners—who have been historically
underserved. We aim to provide them with access to digital payments and other resources that can help improve
their economic livelihoods, businesses and communities.
Our focus areas include:
• Empowering Small & Micro Businesses
• Empowering People
• Empowering Communities
Empowering Small &
Micro Businesses (SMBs)
According to the United Nations, micro, small and medium enterprises account for 90 percent of businesses globally,
60 to 70 percent of employment and 50 percent of gross domestic product (GDP) worldwide, making these businesses
vital contributors to the world’s economy.
At the end of 2023, Visa has digitally enabled nearly 67 million SMBs—exceeding our global goal of 50 million SMBs.
We achieved this through our focus on three areas:
• Solutions
• Skills & Education
• Partnerships & Initiatives
Visa exceeded our global goal to digitally enable 50M small and
micro businesses—reaching nearly 67M, of which an estimated
23M are women-led.
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 14
Solutions purchases abroad or across borders. Recent acquisitions— In Peru, we also expanded Enko, a mobile business
including Tink and CurrencyCloud—provide customers development platform, to continue promoting the
We continue to develop products and services designed with greater transparency, flexibility and control when businesses of Venezuelans and Peruvians participating in
to advance digital equity and economic empowerment making international payments or conducting business the World Council of Credit Unions Economic Inclusion
for SMBs, including: in multiple currencies. Project’s (EIP) entrepreneurship development programs.
Enko is a training and resource platform that provides in-
• Visa Acceptance Cloud: A next-generation
Skills and Education depth content and practical experiences.
cloud-based acceptance platform that provides a
point-of-sale (POS) solution designed to enable
At Visa, we believe that financial education and business Partnerships & Initiatives
business owners to convert Internet-connected
skills can drive digital inclusion, spur economic growth
devices to POS devices, which establishes a low-cost
and positively impact our community partners. Complementing our suite of solutions and skills, Visa also
and scalable payments solution.
pursues purpose-driven partnerships and initiatives in
Visa’s Practical Business Skills educational portal offers
• Visa Direct: A payment solution that helps businesses support of SMBs to create positive business and societal
free resources and interactive tools to SMB owners.
and individuals move money between billions of cards impact. We focus our efforts on helping both existing and
The program focuses on helping growth-minded
and accounts worldwide. Businesses can use Visa Direct newly minted SMBs meet changing consumer demands
entrepreneurs make confident, informed decisions
through their financial institutions to deliver fast, simple and embrace the digital future.
to grow their business. More than 7 million unique
and efficient payments to customers and employees.
individuals and small business owners from over Visa Everywhere Initiative (VEI)
Individuals can use Visa Direct to share costs, send gifts,
180 countries accessed Visa’s Financial Education
pay other individuals and support families around
VEI is a global innovation program that tasks startups with
resources in FY2023.
the world.
solving the payment challenges of tomorrow by further
• Tap to Phone: An app-based solution that simplifies We leverage Practical Business Skills in initiatives enhancing their own product propositions and providing
payment acceptance for merchants of all sizes. Tap globally, including: visionary solutions for Visa’s network of partners.
to Phone allows sellers to use a mobile application to
• Offering Online Small Business Hubs, which are This global competition has attracted nearly 15,000
accept payments without any additional hardware,
localized digital resource centers providing tools, applicants from more than 100 countries, and since
which enables SMBs to connect more quickly to the
partner offers and guidance on starting, running and its 2015 inception, alumni have collectively raised over
Visa network and fast-tracks commerce for sellers
growing digital-first SMBs. $48 billion, highlighting the program’s ability to identify
around the globe.
and foster innovation. VEI is also committed to supporting
• Partnering with ITC SheTrades to advance women’s
• Authorize.net: A solution that helps businesses create
diversity in the startup community as a platform for
economic empowerment across the AP and Gulf
flexible, creative digital commerce solutions, including
brilliant innovators of all races, ethnicities, ages, genders
regions through the "Elevate your business" training
digitizing payments, establishing an online presence,
and sexual orientations. For example, in 2023 Visa
program. This program includes three pillars:
preventing fraud and streamlining operations.
conducted three special edition VEI competitions in
community building and fostering regional synergies,
partnership with StartOut. These competitions specifically
• Cross-border Solutions: Visa is committed to boosting skills and capacity of women entrepreneurs
focused on uplifting and supporting underrepresented
improving cardholders’ experience when making and enhancing financial readiness and access to finance.
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 15
communities across the U.S, and startups owned by
entrepreneurs from historically underrepresented groups.
She’s Next & Women’s
Economic Empowerment
Expanding women's inclusion in the financial system can
have significant economic benefits. At Visa, we strive
to increase the number of women who control capital,
women entrepreneurs who can access that capital
and women who can benefit from those businesses as
employees and customers.
Women entrepreneurs face many universal challenges.
Visa, in collaboration with partners, has been working to
address these challenges by creating access to funding
and education for women-owned SMBs around the world
to be a woman entrepreneur in today’s landscape and and hosted one-on-one mentorship and Pitch Days with
through the Visa She’s Next Grant Program.
how women entrepreneurs can break barriers across Black women business owners in Brazil. These events aim
In 2023, we expanded the She's Next Grant Program industries to succeed. to help women entrepreneurs develop their businesses
into new countries, now including Australia, Canada, so that they can earn their own income and reach
In the UAE, Visa expanded its partnership with
Chile, Denmark, the Dominican Republic, Egypt, Estonia, financial independence.
Iminclusive, a disability-inclusive employment social
Finland, Ireland, Latvia, Lithuania, Morocco, New Zealand,
enterprise and the 2022 She’s Next Winner. In 2023, Following the success of Elas Prosperam, CAIXA in Brazil
Norway, Oman, Poland, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Sweden, UAE,
Iminclusive contracted with Visa to support Visa’s partnered with Visa to launch the CAIXA Visa Women
the U.S. and Vietnam.
efforts to foster a diverse, inclusive workforce. Entrepreneurs Challenge. The challenge was launched
In the U.S., we also offered She’s Next in Fashion, which Together, Visa and Iminclusive hosted disability in three favelas, or local neighborhoods, across Rio de
supported 50 Black, Indigenous and People of Color inclusion workshops and extended the reach of the Janeiro, São Paulo and Salvador. In its first year, the
(BIPOC) women-owned SMBs in fashion and industries, Inclusive Digital Academy to include additional resources program provided more than 110 hours of training and
including through mentorship program access and delivered in English, Arabic and sign language. This mentorship facilitated by dedicated Visa and CAIXA
customer marketing and influencer campaigns. expanded partnership demonstrates Visa’s deep volunteers and culminated in three Pitch Days. Three
commitment to women entrepreneurs. winning entrepreneurs from each city received a
Additionally, Visa partnered to host She’s Next New York,
combined total of R$ 60 thousand in seed capital along
an event designed to foster empowerment for women We also continued our partnerships with Elas Prosperam
with additional mentorship to guide their next steps and
entrepreneurs in New York City. The event included a to support Black women-owned businesses in Latin
investment decisions.
fireside chat with three-time Olympic gold medalist Kerri America. Through Elas Prosperam—which translates to
Walsh Jennings, an SMB panel focused on what it means "They Thrive"—Visa conducted free online training events
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 16
As a result of this expanded partnership, Visa and CAIXA also launched the CAIXA Visa Visa Minority Depository Institutions Accelerate
Mulher Platinum card. Each cardholder transaction generates a donation to Fundo Agbara,
In 2022, Visa announced the launch of Visa Minority Depository Institutions (MDI)
a social impact NGO dedicated to fighting for human dignity and racial and gender equality
Accelerate, a new program to help reduce economic disparities and expand access and
by fostering access to economic rights for all Black women in Brazil. This new product
opportunity in communities of color across the U.S. Through this multi-year program,
provides cardholders with the opportunity to easily engage in social crowdfunding to
Visa will invest up to $100 million via deposits with MDIs to help catalyze lending. With MDI
support women and promote financial inclusion in their region.
Accelerate, Visa provides tailored insights and digital solutions to help financial institutions
Grow Asia in communities of color analyze and dissect their data—providing more comprehensive
insights that allow MDIs to better meet the needs of their clientele and the communities
Visa is committed to accelerating innovative, scalable financial inclusion solutions
they serve.
throughout the regions in which it operates.
As of February 2023, Visa has directed $100 million in deposits in MDIs and was
In 2023, Visa was elected as the co-chair of Grow Asia's Business Council. In this position,
estimated to enable $1 billion in new lending in Asian, Black, Hispanic and Native
Visa will, together with other companies in the Business Council, help Grow Asia and its
American communities.
partners scale digital financial inclusion measures that promote livelihoods, resilience and
sustainability among smallholder farmers in Southeast Asia. Financial inclusion is pivotal Visa continues to expand opportunities for minority-owned financial institutions through
to fostering growth in South East Asia, where SMBs contribute to nearly 45 percent of the the MDI Accelerate program. In 2023, Visa leveraged partnerships with the Alliance for
region’s GDP. Innovative Regulations, the National Bankers Association Foundation and Inclusiv to
support MDIs in their efforts to further enhance their digital banking capabilities.
Visa has also made strategic funding commitments to Grow Asia’s flagship impact funds,
to focus on digital finance in smallholder farmer and women economic empowerment
in agriculture.
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 17
Empowering People
Communities and economies thrive when all individuals Visa's Financial Education resources were accessed personal finance. To date, we have distributed more
are included in the formal financial system and can benefit in over 180 countries by more than 7 million individuals than 1.1 million comics in more than 20 languages.
from financial and digital access. The following initiatives during 2023.
FinEd50
and partnerships focus on helping establish equitable
Education Through Entertainment
access to the financial and digital ecosystem for
In 2023, Visa continued to partner with the Council for
everyone, everywhere.
In support of our commitment to uplift lives through the Economic Education to expand the reach of FinEd50,
power of sport, Visa offers an educational video game a nationwide coalition striving to ensure every American
Skills & Education using the global platform of the FIFA World Cup™. The free student has access to a financial education course.
educational game challenges players to answer money
Financial Education Resources The coalition focuses on advocacy to expand financial
management questions at various levels of difficulty for
education requirements for students at the state and local
a chance to score a goal, bringing together entertainment
Greater financial knowledge can empower people to
level and teacher training to support teacher professional
and education to improve financial literacy.
better manage their money, which can, in turn, improve
development at scale. Since the coalition was established,
their quality of life. Our award-winning global financial
Additionally, Visa and Marvel Entertainment have 12 states have adopted a requirement to teach financial
literacy initiative, Practical Money Skills, strives to
collaborated to release educational comic books, education in schools.
link consumers, educators, financial institutions and
which aim to teach families and young people about
governments to the tools and resources they need.
Visa Launches Fintech Accelerator Program in Africa
In 2023, Visa announced the launch of the new Visa Africa Fintech Accelerator program. Visa’s ongoing investments demonstrate our long-term commitment to Africa’s growth
The program, designed to help enable Africa’s expanding start-up community through potential and aim to help enable greater access to digital payments as an entry point for
expertise, connections, technology and investment funding, will enable up to 40 start-ups expanding formal financial services for individuals and merchants.
each year to grow through a three-month intensive learning program.
In Africa, an estimated 500 million people are without access to formal financial services,
The program will connect entrepreneurs with business growth and mentoring less than 50 percent of the adult population made or received digital payments and more
opportunities. Following program completion, Visa intends to make additional capital than 40 million merchants do not accept digital payments.
investments in select participating businesses—further accelerating their commercial
Visa’s accelerator program will further support fintech growth and financial inclusion in
launch through access to Visa technology and capabilities.
Africa by strengthening the payment ecosystem and providing solutions to challenges
The launch of the Africa Fintech Accelerator program follows Visa’s 2022 pledge to invest that are unique to the African continent.
$1 billion in Africa’s digital transformation and drive inclusive growth.
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 18
Visa Economic Empowerment Institute We see these two initiatives as intertwined because these businesses, thereby fast-tracking their market
individuals and communities thrive when we uplift and introduction through the use of Visa's technology
The Visa Economic Empowerment Institute (VEEI) is
support historically underserved populations through and capabilities.
an independent, non-partisan center of excellence for
inclusive partnerships. Examples of Visa’s inclusive
research and public-private dialogue on payments policy. Visa's accelerator program, in alliance with Plug and Play,
partnerships include:
VEEI’s overarching mission is to promote public policies intends to support fintech growth and financial inclusion
that empower citizens, SMBs and economies, particularly • ZMBIZI: empowering the next generation of mobile worldwide by reinforcing the payment ecosystem and
in VEEI's three primary focus areas: fostering digital merchants, solopreneurs and gig economy workers addressing challenges exclusive to various global markets.
equity and inclusion, unlocking growth through trade with a one-stop solution for all business-related financial
Digital Empowerment Program
and imagining an open future for payments. transactions. ZMBIZI is working to increase community
wealth by enabling and empowering millions of
In partnership with Human-I-T and local communities,
Visa established VEEI as the next step in our ongoing
Americans to “trade on the go” with the ability to accept
Visa’s Digital Empowerment Program provides
mission to remove barriers to economic empowerment
in-person, contactless payments on their smartphones.
equipment and education to SMBs and individuals in
and to create more inclusive, equitable economic
• Totem: an Oklahoma-based, women-founded and -led need. Resources distributed through the program include
opportunities for everyone, everywhere. In FY23,
organization building a digital banking platform catering refurbished laptops, foundational training on how to use
VEEI published thought leadership across topics of
to Indigenous peoples. Totem's goal is to begin a new the equipment, financial training, one year of free tech
digital equity, SMB empowerment through access to
tradition of Native wealth building by partnering with support and low-cost broadband access.
digitization and trade and remittance payments to help
tribes to provide culturally relevant financial products
governments advance public policies that create more This initiative launched in FY22 with 2,500 recipients in
and education, as well as streamlined access to
inclusive economies. Atlanta, Colorado and Toronto. In 2023, Visa expanded the
tribal benefits.
reach of the Digital Empowerment Program to additional
Partnerships & Initiatives Visa Inclusive Fintech Accelerator markets within the U.S. and Canada.
Inclusive Client Partnerships Visa, in partnership with Plug and Play, has announced the Visa’s Digital Empowerment Program also partnered
selection of 21 diverse founders for their North American with CHOICE Humanitarian in 2023 to bring digital literary
Visa aims to increase engagement with clients focused
Inclusive Fintech Accelerator program in 2023. The services and refurbished laptops to residents in rural areas
on improving financial inequities by delivering innovative
initiative is designed to empower the burgeoning start-up of the Navajo Nation. CHOICE Humanitarian, who oversaw
solutions to bring unbanked and historically underserved
community by providing access to industry expertise, project coordination, is a global nonprofit that works with
communities into the financial ecosystem.
connections, technology and investment capital. and through rural communities around the world. The
collaboration was driven in part by employee members
We also look to proactively secure mission-driven
The three-month intensive program will offer participating
of the Visa Natives, Allies, Tribal, and Indigenous Voices
partnerships with commercial businesses that are diverse-
start-up opportunities for business growth and mentorship.
Everywhere (NATIVE) ERG.
owned, diverse-led or focused on diverse target markets.
Upon completion there are opportunities for Plug and
These partnerships help to enable and inspire inclusive
Play to invest additional capital in a select group of
culture and uplift communities through education.
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 19
Financial Empowerment
for Displaced People in Europe
Driven by multi-dimensional research findings on how
payments and financial services can support displaced
people, Visa began standing up a new empowerment
program for forcibly displaced people in Europe1 in 2022.
The goal of the program is to harness the potential of
Visa’s assets and capabilities, ecosystem partnerships
and scale to support forcibly displaced people from the
onset of displacement to long-term integration in their
host countries.
Indo-Pacific conomic Framework for parity, the extension continues to ensure that at least
Additionally, Visa supported the Sunflower Project,
for Prosperity Upskilling Initiative 50 percent of our investment in soccer programming is
a pan-European initiative of the Tent Partnership for
directed to the Women’s National Team and women’s
Refugees (Tent) that was focused on accelerating the
In 2022, Visa pledged to deliver 500,000 upskilling
soccer initiatives.
economic inclusion of tens of thousands of Ukrainian
opportunities to women and girls in Indo-Pacific emerging
refugee women across the continent through better
economies over ten years. These digital financial Visa also supports women's soccer through our
access to jobs, training, upskilling, mentoring and more.
education and skills trainings are being offered in support longstanding partnership with FIFA, including the FIFA
The Sunflower Project ran from June 2022 to June 2023,
of the 2022-2032 Indo-Pacific Economic Framework Women’s World Cup™, FIFA U-17 Women's World Cup™
and culminated in the Tent European Business Summit in
for Prosperity's Upskilling Initiative led by the U.S. and FIFA U-20 Women's World Cup™.
Paris. The Summit saw the most significant set of business
Department of Commerce.
commitments made to advance the economic integration Through Visa’s partnership with FIFA, we announced
of refugee women to date—including Visa’s own Women in Sports a first-ever extension of the Visa Player of the Match
commitment to grow Tent’s Refugee Women Mentorship athlete award in 2023. The award supported women
Sports present a significant opportunity for women
Program in Europe in partnership with LinkedIn. owned SMBs with $500,000 in total grant funding
to pursue their dreams, both on and off the field. Visa
across the 64 matches.
Beyond the Sunflower Project, Visa works with Tent underscores our commitment to champion economic
as a member and anchor company to develop specific empowerment through our efforts to empower women In early 2024, we announced Visa’s first new major global
programs to help refugees connect to work and integrate at the intersection of business and athletics. sports sponsorship in more than 15 years. Visa will join the
economically in Europe. newly formed Red Bull Academy Programme to champion
In 2023, Visa renewed its partnership agreement with the
Visa Cash App RB in the Formula One Academy series.
U.S. Soccer Federation (USSF) to remain the exclusive
This all-female driving series takes place at seven select
payment services partner of both the U.S. Women’s and
tracks over the same weekend as the F1 races.
Men’s National Soccer Teams. As a part of Visa’s push
1. According to the UNHCR | Global Trends Report 2021, Europe received approximately
27 percent, or 7 million, of the world’s forcibly displaced people prior to 2022.
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 20
Empowering Communities
We are committed to using our time, talent and resources In addition, Visa Foundation focuses its philanthropic FY23 Giving Highlights
to support and strengthen the communities and markets efforts through:
in which we operate. ~$20M
• Community Giving
At the corporate level, Visa engages locally in our • Humanitarian and Disaster Relief Visa Total
communities through:
• Supporting SMBs
• Community Giving
~$25M
In 2023, Visa contributed approximately $20 million to
• Employee Giving and Volunteering
charities around the globe. Visa Foundation committed Visa Foundation Total
• Humanitarian and Disaster Relief approximately $25 million in grant funding and $40 million
in impact investments supporting gender diverse and
inclusive small businesses globally. Additionally, Visa
Foundation funded approximately $9 million in employee
matching gifts.
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 21
Employee Giving & Volunteering Community-Based Volunteering Bridge for Billions and Digital Boost
Visa empowers our global workforce to give through Visa leverages volunteer leadership councils, volunteer In 2023, Visa also continued our mentorship programs
monetary and in-kind donations. In 2023, 92 percent time off and team-based volunteer events to foster global with Bridge for Billions and Digital Boost. Bridge for
of Visa’s global employee base participated in impact volunteerism in the communities where we live and work. Billions is an online program that connects Visa employees
programs through activities such as donating, with small business owners from underrepresented
Visa offers two days of paid time off each year to eligible
volunteering and directing loans to SMBs through communities worldwide. Over a five-month incubation
employees to volunteer for the charity or activity of their
the Visa Foundation’s partnership with Kiva, a financial period, Visa employees provide 1-to-1 mentorship to
choice during work hours. Additionally, team volunteering
inclusion nonprofit. these entrepreneurs. Together, they work on defining
opportunities are organized, encouraged and supported.
the business strategy, financial projections, and impact
Visa & GivingTuesday We continue to offer opportunities for virtual volunteering.
assessments, as well as creating growth plans for the
We also engage voluntary Community & Volunteering
ventures. Digital Boost is a mentoring platform through
Started in 2012 and fueled by the power of social media
Councils around the world to facilitate our programs while
which Visa employees are also able to mentor SMBs and
and collaboration, GivingTuesday is a global movement
also providing employees with leadership development
charity founders, sharing key digital skills to help their
that encourages people to do good and “unleash the
opportunities.
businesses thrive.
power of radical generosity.”2 Visa Foundation celebrates
GivingTuesday by amplifying Visa employees’ donations In FY23, approximately 9,600 employees from Pro Bono Volunteering
with a double-matching commitment of up to $1,000. 69 countries volunteered a total of 78,000 hours.
In 2023, more than 4,800 employees united to support In 2023, Visa’s Legal, Ethics & Compliance team
Kiva Campaign
this special day of collective compassion, harnessing participated in a number of pro bono activities, providing
Visa Foundation’s match to generate $7.1 million in support Through a Visa Foundation grant of over US $1.5 million service to charitable organizations and clients on issues
for more than 4,200 organizations around the world. to Kiva, a financial inclusion nonprofit, Visa employees relating to immigration, LGBTQ+ rights, veterans’ rights,
housing, support for SMBs and more. This included
have also been able to help increase financial access for
Dollars for Doers
participation by more than 145 legal professionals
underserved small and micro businesses (SMBs) around
during Visa’s 2023 Global Pro Bono Week, a one-week
Employees can earn $10 per hour spent volunteering to the globe for the past four years.
event in which Visa team members around the world
contribute to charities they support (up to $500 per year).
As part of this program, Visa employees help designate volunteered to support 20 pro bono opportunities
Additionally, each quarter, two employees from each
loans to SMBs, amplifying Kiva’s work and involving across 13 global locations.
Visa region are awarded $1,000 to give back to a charity
employees in Visa Foundation’s mission of supporting
of their choice. In 2023, Visa issued nearly $800,000 in
inclusive economies by prioritizing the growth of gender-
rewards through Dollars for Doers for employees logging
diverse and inclusive SMBs. Since 2020, Visa employees
volunteer hours.
have collectively directed over $4.7 million in loans to
over 90,000 SMBs in 56 countries, of which 88 percent
are women-owned. In 2023, 85 percent of employees
participated in the Kiva Campaign, loaning $1.2 million
2. https://www.givingtuesday.org/ to over 19,400 SMBs.
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 22
TOTAL COMMITMENT3
Visa Foundation 200.5
$ M
Small and micro businesses are the backbone of local
economies, promoting innovation, creating jobs and
fostering upward mobility. Visa Foundation partners with
local organizations to invest in SMB owners, creating ripple
INVESTMENTS GRANTS
effects for their families, employees and customers.
$120. 5M $80M
In 2024, Visa Foundation published its first Impact Report
detailing collective impact since 2017. For comprehensive Partnering with 24 Partnering with 50
information on Visa Foundation, please refer to the organizations organizations
Visa Foundation Impact Report.
CONTRIBUTING TO PARTNERS WHOSE
WORK RESULTS IN
2B+
4M+
$ 1M+
Small businesses
supported of capital invested in local communities Jobs supported
3. Commitments and impact from October 2017 through September 2023 based on annual
reporting from partners.
$120.5 million in investments by partnering with 24 organizations, and $80 million in grants
by partnering with 50 organizations, leading to $200.5 million in total commitments from
Visa Foundation. These commitments contributed to partners whose work results in over
$2 billion of capital invested in local communities, over 4 million small business supported
and over 1 million jobs supported.
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 23
Enabling Trusted Commerce
& Protecting Customers
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 24
Payments Security
At Visa, we aim to increase transaction approvals so that At Visa, our approach to security focuses on three key areas:
businesses can thrive while customers are protected
• Credentials security: the ability to secure transactions
and satisfied.
and limit financial losses for ecosystem participants.
We closely monitor the payments security landscape and
• Operational resiliency: the ability to maintain a
in 2023, we identified three major trends that are driving
network that is always on and helps participants identify
payments security:
risks, improve decision making and transact efficiently.
• As new flows and payment methods expand, fraudsters • Ecosystem integrity: the ability to identify and stop or
can attack in more ways; barriers to commit fraud are mitigate illegal activity.
reduced through more sophisticated and accessible
As a network of networks, We measure the effectiveness of our approach to
technologies.
payments security regularly. We monitor metrics like
we enable the global movement • Fraudsters are migrating to earlier stages of the
fraud rates for Card Present and Card Not Present (CNP)
transaction lifecycle by fabricating identities rather
of money and are working to scenarios as well as transaction volumes that leverage
than stealing them and establishing years of
secure technologies, such as 3-D Secure or Tokenization.
provide payment solutions and “legitimate” history before maxing out lines of
credit and disappearing. In FY23, Visa evolved our dispute program, making it easier
services for everyone, everywhere.
to fight first-party misuse, also known as friendly fraud or
• Artificial intelligence (AI) is powering innovation in
We facilitate secure, reliable and first-party fraud, for CNP scenarios. The change could save
fraud capabilities, particularly in social engineering
small businesses over $1 billion in losses globally over the
efficient money movement among by establishing deepfake models of close friends
next five years, in turn benefiting the entire ecosystem
or family members.
consumers, financial institutions of consumers and merchants. We also introduced the
Over the past five years, Visa has invested over $11 billion Digital Authentication Framework to increase approval
and merchants. We continuously
in technology, including to reduce fraud and enhance rates for CNP transactions, lower fraud, reduce friction
strive to identify and invest in cybersecurity resilience. Visa employs specialists and improve the consumer user experience.
dedicated to protecting Visa’s network from malware,
new capabilities, work with clients
Visa is also investing in our Risk-as-a-Service (RaaS)
zero-day attacks and insider threats 24x7x365.
advisory function, through which we help clients tailor
to help secure the payments
Visa also deploys AI-enabled capabilities and always-on their security posture to their unique needs, including
environment and take action to
experts to protect our network, proactively detecting the ability to outsource the execution of selected fraud
and preventing billions of dollars of attempted fraud. mitigation and prevention activities to Visa.
improve the security, integrity
and resiliency of our network. We invest in innovation to build and maintain trust for our We engage with ecosystem participants to gather
network and the broader payments ecosystem. We strive perspectives, benchmark our thinking, inform our
to continue to evolve our security capabilities and work security investments and improve the operational
to reduce system-wide global fraud. resilience of our network.
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 25
Visa manages payments security risk through regular Visa secures the payment ecosystem with
analysis of trends and threats, including biannual a four-pronged approach:
publication of a fraud disruption threats report and annual
• Protect against potential threats: We champion
publication of a payments security trends overview.
industry-wide payment security standards, establish
comprehensive solutions to secure the full transaction
Protect, Defend, Evolve,
lifecycle and guide stakeholders to support the use of
Tailor Framework
secure technologies and practices.
Digital payments offer vast opportunities for business • Defend against ongoing attacks: We monitor
growth, and with this opportunity comes security ecosystem participants for vulnerabilities, use
threats. Visa works hard to ensure that security, identity actionable intelligence to detect and alert against fraud
protection and dispute prevention keep pace with and implement compliance programs to remediate
evolving challenges. Our multi-layered approach connects excessive fraud, disputes or illegal activity.
sellers and issuers to dynamic, data-rich solutions that
• Evolve capabilities in a shifting landscape: We secure
help balance fraud reduction, dispute prevention and
new channels and flows from onset of product and
increased approvals so that businesses can thrive and
system development and share recommended best
customers are protected and satisfied.
practices for ecosystem participants to benefit from
network-level lessons learned.
Visa enables growth by letting each ecosystem participant
focus on what they do best. Merchants want to spend • Tailor risk management to unique needs: We
time and energy building their product and service offer a suite of capabilities for clients across the risk
offerings and need seamless, secure and easy-to-adopt management value chain including through our RaaS
payment solutions. Cardholders want to transact with capabilities, delivered as self-service modules or as a
confidence and ease. Issuers, fintechs, processors, managed service via our Risk Operations Center.
payments facilitators and other ecosystem participants
We continue to work with clients across regions to
also have unique value propositions.
accelerate the adoption of Intelligent Security solutions.
The Visa Intelligent Security framework offers our
ecosystem partners dynamic, data-rich solutions that
help balance fraud reduction and dispute prevention.
$40 billion in fraud-related losses
prevented in 2023.
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 26
Cybersecurity
Recognizing that the cyber threat landscape continues In addition to vendor offerings, Visa uses innovative Policy & Training
to increase in sophistication and complexity, Visa is proprietary solutions to support cybersecurity and
committed to championing cybersecurity within our antifraud capabilities. Customized Visa-engineered The Visa Information Security Policy charters the Key
operations. Our cybersecurity organization protects our solutions include Visa Identity Behavior Analytics, which Controls, Visa’s security standards framework. Based
information and technology assets by operationalizing helps defend against digital identity fraud by providing on the ISO/IEC 27002, Payment Card Industry Data
zero-trust architecture and deploying defense-in-depth strong consumer authentication. Security Standards and the National Institute of Standards
principles. We use an established risk framework and and Technology Cybersecurity Framework, the Key
No single technology in isolation can stop every threat.
assessment methodology to identify cybersecurity Controls define the requirements for the protection of
We deploy multiple redundant layers of preventive and
risks and associated business impacts. In 2023, Visa’s Visa information and technology assets. The framework
detective technologies across our network and data layers
security program once again achieved the highest is organized in a hierarchical structure which includes
to help mitigate risk. In the event cyber criminals succeed
capability maturity rating within its category from Gartner Domains, Control Categories and Standards. All staff,
in breaching one layer of our defenses, the layers beyond
Consulting, outperforming peer organizations within the including employees, contractors and contingent workers,
are designed to remain secure and protected by
highly-regulated financial services sector. are required to comply with the Key Controls.
additional controls.
Visa makes continuous investments to improve our The Cybersecurity Governance, Risk and Compliance
This layered defense-in-depth strategy is supported
cybersecurity capabilities. Our goal is to maintain zero- organization is responsible for the ongoing administration
by robust governance processes that involve regular
breach operations for Visa applications and data, both of the Key Controls, with specific oversight provided
oversight by and reporting to the Board and management.
inside and outside our data centers. We continue to by the Cybersecurity Policy team. The Key Controls
Specifically, the full Board receives updates on Visa’s
implement new technologies and processes to enhance are reviewed at least annually and updated as needed
cybersecurity program twice per year from our President
our security posture against emerging threats. We also to address changes to business activities, industry
of Technology. In addition, the Board’s Audit and Risk
build and use AI solutions to prevent, detect and respond or regulatory requirements and new threats
Committee holds responsibility for oversight of the
to cyber threats, as part of a layered, defense-in-depth or vulnerabilities.
company’s Cybersecurity program, annually conducts an
strategy. Additional improvements include enhancing
in-depth review of the program and reviews any material All new staff (including employees, contractors and
our architecture, expanding our data protection
changes to the information security strategy. The Audit contingent workers) are required to complete Key
program to include unstructured data and continuing
and Risk Committee also receives quarterly reports from Controls Compliance Training within the first 45
to refine our robust vulnerability management and
our Chief Information Security Officer on the state of days of their start date. Staff members must then
patching capabilities. Visa developers build security into
Visa’s Cybersecurity program, including relevant metrics successfully complete Key Controls Compliance training
applications as part of a secure software development
and threat intelligence, as well as reports on internal at least annually thereafter. To complete training, staff
lifecycle. We augment our core detection capabilities
audit findings and external assessments of our members must attest they have read and understood
with a proactive approach, where we “hunt” for traces
Cybersecurity program. the information security requirements and associated
of malicious activity to intercept would-be attackers.
responsibilities. In 2023, 100 percent of eligible employees
The following sections describe some of the components
completed mandatory Key Controls training.
we use to enact our cybersecurity strategy across
the business.
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 27
All managers are responsible for promoting security virtual events, original online content and training. Key learning technology to monitor our network, understand
throughout their organizations, embedding security in themes in 2023 were social engineering, secure AI and the threats aimed at our company, enhance supply chain
business processes and including security requirements data use and supply chain risk. risk management and strengthen threat detection and
in the planning and execution of business initiatives. response. Our efforts to mitigate risks, including malware
In 2023, we introduced the Visa Payments Learning
Visa managers are responsible for ensuring that staff are attacks, data breaches and phishing scams, focus on
Program, designed to upskill employees, students,
aware of Visa security policies and procedures, including continuous cybersecurity threat identification.
clients and military personnel through a series of training
any relevant Technical or Design Security Requirements
courses and certifications. The program’s primary focus Visa is committed to improving our security posture as
associated with their job function. Managers with
is payments cybersecurity and is a direct response to the threat landscape evolves. Visa also shares threat
staff members performing specific security functions
the White House’s National Cybersecurity Strategy intelligence and best practices while collaborating with
are responsible for ensuring that their staff members
Implementation Plan and its call for businesses to create industry peers, clients and competitors to stay up to
are aware of and competent to perform any assigned
more pathways into cybersecurity. Currently available in date on the latest cybersecurity trends. These inputs
security duties and responsibilities. Security duties may
the U.S. with plans to expand globally, the Visa Payments support constant refinement of our security controls.
include how to report incidents, when and how to open a
Learning Program is comprised of several cross-functional Alongside the latest threat intelligence, we incorporate
Security Assessment or engage the Third-Party Lifecycle
programs, including Visa University and talent programs lessons learned from response and resiliency exercises to
Management Program (TLMP). TLMP helps manage
that allow for diverse avenues of upskilling and creating improve our security posture. Furthermore, we continue
supplier risk, administer remediation requirements for
new career entry pathways for untapped communities. to innovate by engineering preventive and detective
vulnerabilities and security findings and implement the
Learn more in the Investing in Our People chapter solutions to advance the capabilities of our sensors,
operation of any specific controls, security activities or
of this report. automated responses and visualization tools.
procedures. Additionally, managers must ensure that staff
complete all required and any additionally designated
Adaptive Resiliency Audits & Third-Party Certifi ations
cybersecurity training.
In addition to mandatory compliance training, Visa’s We regularly conduct cross-functional response and To promote the effectiveness of our cybersecurity
cybersecurity team conducts multiple security awareness resiliency exercises involving internal teams and external approach and controls, we conduct multiple internal and
and training activities throughout the year to promote partners and agencies. At Visa, our comprehensive digital external audits of our IT infrastructure and applications
good cyber-hygiene and familiarity with Visa processes transformation addresses cyber resiliency by continuously throughout the year. Our systems are subject to
and tools. The cybersecurity team conducts simulated looking for changing attack surfaces, risk management and examination by the Federal Banking Agencies and other
phishing campaigns periodically throughout the year and evolving threats. regulators from across the globe. Examples of external
offers various instructor-led and e-training curricula. We reviews include Payment Card Industry Data Security
We monitor and protect our critical assets in real time,
also publish original cybersecurity awareness content to Standard, Statement on Standards for Attestation
including networks, computers, digital assets and
employees across multiple enterprise channels covering Engagements (SSAE-18) and International Standard
databases from attacks, damage or unauthorized access.
themes such as social engineering and cybersecurity best on Assurance Engagements 3402.
We continue to build on our Zero Trust priorities with
practices. Each October, Visa observes Cybersecurity
increased intelligence-led activities and enhanced alert
Awareness Month with a month-long, enterprise-wide
and detection strategies. We also leverage AI and deep
multi-channel messaging campaign, including live and
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 28
Responsible Data Use
We recognize consumers are concerned about how their • Value: Data use at Visa should benefit individuals,
data is collected, used, shared and kept secure. When businesses and economies. We strive to do this by
it comes to data, our focus is simple: to use the data delivering greater security, financial inclusion and
entrusted to us to use, consistent with our Data Values, consumer convenience.
to enable individuals, businesses and economies to thrive.
• Fairness: Visa’s application of data and data-driven
Visa relies on data to improve the security and value of
insights aims to be fair and inclusive and avoid
the Visa network, better serve our clients and partners,
discrimination. Visa will strive to make our models
protect consumers from fraud and drive positive impact
explainable, accurate and safe.
for communities and economies around the globe.
• Accountability: Visa’s approach to data use should
We have adopted policies and practices designed to be consistently applied at all levels of the organization
embed accountability and enable responsible execution and be embedded through process, training and
for data practices throughout the organization. We utilize management responsibilities.
the expertise of dedicated security, privacy and data
The application of these principles may evolve over time,
professionals working around the world.
adapting to new privacy and data-related regulations
and standards that may emerge, based on the needs
Data Values
of consumers, businesses and economies.
The Visa Data Values emphasize our commitment
As Visa’s business moves into new technologies, payment
to responsible data use and outline the principles we
flows and value-added services, we are committed to
apply when we collect, use and share consumer data.
engaging with policymakers and regulators worldwide
Data innovation is a vital component of Visa’s strategy—
to participate in the development and harmonization
and is in everything we do—built on our over 60-year
of data focused laws, regulations and standards.
legacy of responsible data stewardship. The Visa Data
Values include:
• Security: Individuals and businesses should have
confidence that Visa payment data is safe. There is no
higher priority for Visa than safeguarding those who
use our products, services and network.
• Control: Visa will always strive to provide simple
explanations regarding how data may be used and to
empower individuals with easy processes to manage
use of their data.
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 29
Data Privacy
Visa operates one of the world’s largest payment several cross-functional teams and internal governance and safeguards consumers from fraud.
networks, and respecting privacy is central to supporting bodies, including the Cybersecurity team and Global
Our focus is simple: to use the data entrusted to us
our purpose to uplift everyone, everywhere by being the Data Office.
in a responsible and compliant manner to benefit
best way to pay and be paid. Visa has a Global Privacy
The Corporate Risk Committee and the Visa Audit and consumers, support innovation and help businesses
Program to support the appropriate collection, use and
Risk Committee oversee Visa’s Global Privacy Program and economies grow.
sharing of personal information. Our Privacy Program is
and the risks related to data privacy, including compliance
centered on key privacy principles that allow the Privacy
We strive to be transparent about our data practices.
with current and emerging data protection laws
Program to adapt alongside Visa’s global footprint, taking
To learn more about how Visa collects, uses and shares
around the world. Our commitment to privacy and
into account industry benchmarks and best practices in
Personal Information, as well as the privacy choices we
data protection builds trust and confidence with our
addition to evolving laws and regulations.
offer, please refer to our Visa Global Privacy Notice.
employees and clients, enables us to innovate responsibly
Visa’s Chief Privacy Officer leads Visa’s Global Privacy and protects our brand. At Visa, we recognize that data
Office, comprising dozens of privacy professionals around is a powerful tool that catalyzes innovation, enhances
the world. The Global Privacy Office works closely with customer experiences, promotes new value to consumers
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 30
Responsible Use of Artificial Intelligence
At Visa, we are committed to exploring new applications We believe using AI responsibly can usher in an era of We see several areas of potential development in
of predictive and generative AI that could transform how payments that simplifies and democratizes access to generative AI, including:
we serve our customers, partners and stakeholders in financial services.
• Engineering efficie y: Visa has conducted large-scale
accordance with Visa's AI Principles.
Today we have nearly 140 AI models in production, pilots of generative AI capabilities for day-to-day coding
We are not new to AI— in fact, we have longstanding powering over 40 products and solutions, including: and testing of our software and is now rolling this out
experience with the power of AI in securing and protecting broadly to our developers. Generative AI will allow our
• Cybersource Decision Manager: Fraud and risk
our payments against fraud. In 1993, Visa became the developers to benefit from sophisticated AI capabilities
assessment tool that applies advanced machine
first network to deploy AI-based technology to manage at scale.
learning to historical transaction data to spot patterns.
risk and mitigate fraud, pioneering the use of AI models in
• Employee productivity: Visa has deployed a secure
payments. Over the last 10 years, Visa has spent more than
• Smarter Stand-In Processing: Real-time deep learning instance of GPT-4 to employees, which can help with
$3 billion on AI and data infrastructure to enable safer,
model that helps improve payment experiences during content summarization, research, drafting and analysis,
smarter money movement and to proactively identify and
outages by mirroring issuer approvals with up to 95 enabling all of us to focus more of our time on strategic,
prevent fraud.
percent accuracy. high-value activities that drive growth for our business
and for our clients.
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 31
• New products and services: Visa has doubled down identify patterns in past token requests across device, purpose and perform at acceptable standards. As part
on our use of generative AI and several thousand e-commerce and card-on-file tokens to help predict the of this work, Visa reviews modeling techniques and sets
colleagues are now working on our new data and AI probability of token provisioning fraud. Available as a technical standards for model performance to mitigate
platforms, helping us to enable even more sophisticated value-added service for clients, VPI uses machine learning model drift and explain the models’ purpose
models in our future product offerings. to rate the likelihood of fraud for token provisioning and functionalities.
requests, helping financial institutions prevent fraud in
Perhaps the most exciting application of generative
Visa’s internal AI Governance function and committees
a targeted way and enable more seamless and secure
AI will be innovating for our clients and the payments
help apply governance and data safeguards to our use
transactions for Visa cardholders.
ecosystem at large. We are already working on multiple
of AI, and we conduct cross-functional stakeholder
fronts, collaborating to enhance and improve commerce
Good data makes for good AI. As such, data governance is discussions on emerging AI regulations. We also
with generative AI across the consumer shopping journey.
critical to the development of responsible AI systems. This collaborate with international standards organizations,
Visa Consulting and Analytics also recently announced
includes incorporating privacy-by-design approaches and government entities, other companies, civil society
its launch of an AI advisory service to help our customers
complying with applicable data protection laws so that organizations and academic researchers to deepen our
strategically navigate emerging technologies in their
data inputs of AI systems are lawfully collected, relevant understanding of AI risks and effective risk migration
operations.
and fit-for-purpose. Given the rapid rise of generative strategies. Establishing consumer trust around AI,
AI over the past year, we recently established an AI emerging technology and data is vital. Visa has been
In October 2023, we announced the launch of a new
governance function and evolved our cross-functional committed to sustainable innovation by creating a
$100 million generative AI ventures initiative to invest
processes to integrate and champion the Visa AI Principles governance structure that prioritizes the responsible
in venture-backed startups focused on developing
across our review of AI use cases. The AI governance stewardship of data—a core foundation for responsible
generative AI technologies and applications that will
framework is designed to interact with, and complement, AI. Our data values—security, control, value, fairness and
impact the future of commerce and payments. This
the data policy and privacy assessment processes at Visa. accountability—underpin Visa’s approach to emerging
initiative will be managed by Visa Ventures, the global
This layered approach helps facilitate comprehensive, technologies and help cultivate and maintain the trust that
corporate investment arm of Visa, which has been
global, multi-stakeholder reviews of AI systems deployed drives Visa’s reputation as a leading payments network.
investing in and partnering with companies driving
by Visa, in line with current and emerging AI regulations
innovation in payments and commerce since 2007.
and client, consumer and regulator expectations.
In December 2023, we announced the commercial launch
We also recognize that the use of AI is not without risk.
of Visa Provisioning Intelligence (VPI), an AI-based product
Visa’s AI Governance function promotes adherence to
designed to combat token fraud at its source. VPI uses
Visa’s AI principles. Visa conducts risk-based monitoring of
a segment-level supervised machine learning model to
its model inventory to assess that the models are fit-for-
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 32
Visa’s AI Principles
As an extension of the well-established Visa Data Values, Visa’s AI Principles
offer guiding principles for the safeguards we strive to achieve and apply
to the development, deployment and assessment of AI systems and use
cases across Visa.
Security Fairness
In pursuit of innovation, Visa strives to deploy AI systems with confidentiality, In developing AI systems, Visa pursues programs to promote responsible
integrity and reliability to help ensure robust levels of security and safety for the innovation and the ethical use of AI, protect individual rights and build societal
individuals, businesses and partners participating in its payments ecosystem. confidence in AI. Visa aims to deploy fair AI systems by reviewing potential
Through appropriate audit and monitoring across the lifecycle of AI systems, risks, unanticipated biases and adverse impacts throughout the AI lifecycle.
Visa aims to uphold quality, prevent misuse, protect data privacy and security Visa strives to act ethically and minimize the risk of unfair outcomes through
and detect and respond to potential adverse events. human oversight of design, data, production output and intended purpose
of all AI systems.
Control
Visa aspires for transparency and appropriate consumer choice and control Accountability
over data in its AI systems, including explaining the purpose, design, inputs While striving toward the full potential of AI systems, Visa works to align decisions
and outcomes of its AI systems. Visa works to deploy AI systems that respect made or informed by AI with the organization’s values and clearly define roles and
privacy by design, with controls and governance to create a trusted, responsibilities across technology, operational and management stakeholders.
confidence-inspiring, ecosystem for individuals, businesses and partners. Visa is accountable for its use of its ecosystem participants’ data in AI systems
and strives to utilize privacy-enhancing techniques to safeguard all stakeholders’
Value
privacy. Visa educates and trains employees to drive responsible AI use and
Visa invests in and employs AI to drive innovation and support its mission
innovation to uphold Visa’s commitment to responsible AI.
to uplift everyone, everywhere by being the best way to pay and be paid.
Visa seeks to create value for individuals, businesses and economies by Additional information can be found in the Responsible AI section of
innovatively deploying AI systems that promote financial inclusion, Visa's corporate website.
consumer convenience and benefits across the payments ecosystem.
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 33
Transaction Integrity
Visa is committed to maintaining the integrity of our As part of the VIRP, Visa:
payment system, and we do not tolerate the use of our
• Maintains registration requirements for acquirers and
network and products for illegal activity.
merchants, pursuant to which acquirers attest to their
Visa has longstanding rules, processes and a robust merchants’ compliance with our standards.
compliance program designed to uphold the integrity of
• Provides acquirers guidance and direction on controls
our network. Our approach to protecting the network is
to help comply with Visa’s rules.
tethered to the law and grounded in the Visa Rules. It is
• Proactively monitors participant network activity
Visa’s policy to follow the law everywhere we do business.
via machine-learning solutions.
We do not make moral judgments on legal purchases
• Works with acquirers to identify and remediate (or
made by consumers and we respect the rightful role of
terminate under certain circumstances) merchants
lawmakers to make decisions about what is legal and what
that are selling illegal items and services.
is not. However, when participants on our network are
• Engages with law enforcement to stay abreast of
unable to meet our requirements, including compliance
ecosystem risks.
with applicable law, we levy financial penalties and, based
on the circumstances, suspend or terminate them from • Supports industry and cross-industry organizations and
our system. initiatives such as the Internet Watch Foundation and
the Financial Coalition Against Child Sexual Exploitation,
Visa Integrity Risk Program a joint initiative of the International Centre for Missing
and Exploited Children and the National Center for
Visa continues to enhance and evolve our risk programs Missing and Exploited Children.
to meet the needs of a constantly changing payments
• Combats counterfeiting and piracy in partnership
landscape. The Visa Integrity Risk Program (VIRP)
with the International Anti-Counterfeiting Coalition.
establishes a set of ecosystem controls, requirements and
capabilities designed to deter, detect and remediate non- Visa is also a member of the Alliance for Safe Online
compliant transactions across our network. VIRP helps Pharmacies, a global initiative that works to combat
acquirers and their designated agents maintain proper illegally sold prescription medicines.
controls and oversight to prevent illegal transactions
from entering the Visa payment system, especially within
certain business types that are at higher risk of processing
unlawful transactions.
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 34
Investing in Our People
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 35
Employee Talent, Growth & Learning
Being a Visa employee means being supported by Visa’s longstanding commitment to invest in our experience and interests. People leaders are expected
approximately 28,800 colleagues inspired by the employees includes robust development and education to be active supporters, and mentors are also available
common purpose to uplift everyone, everywhere by programs in areas of payments, technology, inclusion and to provide different perspectives.
being the best way to pay and be paid. We celebrate our diversity, professional development and leadership.
In 2023, we launched a Senior Vice President (SVP)
employees’ unique life experiences, talents, passions
Talent & Learning Strategy development program to offer focused development
and the contributions they can make to drive innovation
for key senior talent. The development program includes
in the payments technology industry. To maintain our
Visa employs a talent and learning strategy that seeks
assessment tools and executive coaching, which are
position as an employer of choice, we make intentional
to develop, attract and retain a capable, skilled and
designed to prepare future leaders for executive team
investments in our people in the following areas:
engaged workforce. We aim to propel next-generation
experiences. We also revised our Vice President (VP)
leaders and enable career growth through technical and
• Employee Talent, Growth & Learning Development Program to target and accelerate the
functional skill development. We invest in enhanced ways
development of skilled and diverse talent at the VP level,
• Inclusion & Diversity
for working to ensure our workforce has opportunities to
strengthening career planning. In addition, senior directors
• Employee Engagement continuously develop. This year, we continued to support
now take part in the talent review and planning process to
the performance, development and career growth of
• Visa Total Rewards drive a stronger, more diverse pipeline of talent across our
all employees at Visa. We foster a culture of excellence,
functions and regions.
• Employee Safety & Security
communicate openly and drive our teams to collaborate
and win together. In parallel, we are working on new initiatives to build
a deeper understanding of and ability to forecast the
In 2023, we introduced a new approach to objective
skills our organization may need in the future, as well as
We celebrate our employees’
setting, using the objectives and key results (OKR)
the skills our talent holds now. The intention is to more
concept to increase clarity, ambition, transparency
unique life experiences, talents, proactively guide and future-proof employee career
and collaboration for the work teams deliver. Alongside
planning and enable Visa’s upskilling and reskilling
passions and the contributions
this, employees set two development objectives to
strategy. Initiatives include developing and integrating
increase their impact and personal growth at Visa, which
they can make. functional skill frameworks and testing dynamic skills
employees discuss with their people leader through a
technology solutions.
new cadence of company-wide quarterly conversations.
Employees are encouraged to set out development plans Through these efforts, we are cultivating a culture
that combine new experiences, exposure and education. of high performance, growth and innovation, where
our people feel enabled to achieve their purpose and
Employees continue to access the guidance and resources
full potential.
available to them to explore and drive their career growth
within the organization, personalized to their skills,
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 36
Employee Performance Learning & Development
& Mobility Framework
Visa University (VU), a part of the Visa People Team’s
Visa prioritizes employee development and growth Global Talent organization, is dedicated to enabling
through regular, impactful performance and feedback business strategies and promoting employee
dialogues. We have adopted a simple yet powerful growth through comprehensive and diverse learning
practice comprising objective setting, quarterly opportunities. With offerings spanning from leadership
conversations and annual reviews. These regular development to role-specific training in areas like
touchpoints aim to enhance performance conversations, Technology, Sales and Client Services, we aim to equip
driving growth and improvement across our workforce. employees with the skills they need in their roles and for
They are complemented by ongoing recognition, coaching key emerging technologies. Our ethos is to ignite curiosity,
and feedback for employees to meet their OKRs and fuel learning and propel growth for everyone, everywhere,
embody the Visa Leadership Principles. During our 2023 every day. We achieve this by utilizing innovative learning
annual review process, 91 percent of eligible employees solutions that drive performance outcomes and are
completed a self-assessment, and 97 percent received based on a balanced methodology of Education,
a written manager assessment. Exposure and Experience.
All Visa employees have a career development To demonstrate our commitment to cultivating
framework, set of resources and digital tools to plan knowledge and skills among Visa’s global workforce,
their career growth at the company. We actively in FY23 VU delivered over 400,000 hours of learning to
encourage employees to explore growth opportunities 96 percent of Visa’s global employees (not including
and formally support job mobility through our Internal required compliance training).
Mobility Guidelines.
Notable VU accomplishments in FY23 include:
Engagement from employees and people leaders across
• Commercially focused: Initiatives offered as part of
the organization remained high in 2023. Most employees
our aspiration to build a best-in-class sales organization
use internal tools to direct their development, and people
include Visa Product Showcase, IDDEA Sales
leaders engage in regular career and growth conversations
Methodology 2.0, Sales Pro, Sales Persona Learning and
with individual team members.
Sales Certifications workstreams. Over 6,000 client-
facing employees underwent targeted training, with
significant focus on customer-first product story, product
awareness, and sales strategies and enablement.
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 37
• Business and People Leadership: Programs include Leading for Growth: Country Bolstering Visa’s commitment to ongoing growth and learning, in 2023 VU hosted
Manager Program and Ignite: Leading Visa Forward and Leading Everyone, Everywhere. the fifth annual Learning Festival focused on Powering Your Payments Knowledge
These programs showed success, with participants reporting increased competencies and launched a new scalable program, Learn Together. More than 10,000 employees
and confidence for their respective roles, reassuring Visa’s commitment to nurturing attended 10 virtual sessions and over 100 in-person events at 60 locations around the
company leaders. world. These achievements reiterate Visa University’s commitment to upskill employees
globally in alignment with Visa’s bold, fast, sell-focused approach.
• Digital Payments: We extended our scalable Digital Payment Catalyst program to
over 500 employees. In partnership with Visa’s Crypto Team, VU launched Digital
Currency Fundamentals to educate employees on different types of digital currencies,
blockchain technology and non-fungible tokens and how they fit into the digital
Visa University delivered over 400,000 hours
payment ecosystem.
of learning in FY23.
• Artificial Intelligen e: We also piloted the AI Acumen for Senior Leaders course.
VU continues to support Visa’s technology transformation by upskilling employees
on cutting-edge tech topics such as Container, Cloud, Spark, Kafka, Tusker and more.
• Employee Productivity: Aligning with Visa's efforts to be bolder and faster,
VU launched How to Meet Better, a learning initiative to establish meaningful
meeting habits and improve productivity.
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 38
Inclusion & Diversity
At Visa, inclusion and diversity is a business imperative,
from our workforce to the products we design and the
businesses we serve, across the varied regions in
which we operate. Our inclusion and diversity areas
of focus include:
• People: Attract, develop and retain a workforce that is
reflective of the business and communities we support.
• Leaders: Promote cultural competency among Visa
leaders to maximize engagement and create a more
robust talent acquisition pipeline.
• Environment: Foster organizational environment
that celebrates differences and encourages unique
perspectives.
Our People • Fast Forward Women: Visa piloted a hybrid program
• Business: Harness the innovative potential of an
with Fast Forward Group for over 70 mid-career
inherently diverse workforce to drive business initiatives. We invest in a workplace that encourages diversity employees addressing specific challenges that women
of thought, culture and background so that diverse encounter in the workplace. Participants from across
Visa is a people-centric company with supportive
perspectives are embedded in our work. We strive to the U.S. joined a two-day, in-person program where
colleagues who lift each other up and embrace a culture
create an inclusive workplace by valuing all employees they learned practical tools for self-advocacy, work-
of caring and respect. In the U.S., we have embedded
and investing in robust inclusion and diversity training. life balance and career navigation. 92 percent of
our commitment to inclusion and diversity in our hiring
participants reported gaining confidence to pursue
practices. By increasing our focus on inclusion and In 2023, we deepened our focus on the retention,
new responsibilities and leadership roles.
diversity and investing in employee development, development and advancement of women globally
we create more equitable teams within Visa. at Visa, including through the following offerings: • Women in Payments: Visa increased our sponsorship
level to the sole Global Signature Networking Sponsor
• Black Enterprise Women of Power Summit: Visa of Women in Payments, a global organization focused
sponsored over 25 mid-career employees across on gender parity in the payments industry. With this,
various locations and functions to attend a leadership more than 100 employees across Visa will receive
conference for executive women of color, where access to mentorship opportunities, regional symposia
they gained valuable development opportunities and with key industry leaders and online memberships for
networked with peers and mentors. 95 percent of continued leadership and development.
participants reported that they gained useful ideas and
resources that they could apply to their roles at Visa.
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 39
• AP RISE Program: In 2023, we launched a leadership • Brij the Gap: A four-week online program that development strategies needed to either exceed
development program with INSEAD in our Asia Pacific provides participants with career and self-advocacy in their current role or to meet their next career goal.
(AP) region for approximately 40 mid-career employees strategies to support their career goals. Participants
• Talent Accelerator: In Europe, we expanded our ethnic
across the region. Participants engaged with INSEAD receive personalized coaching and focus on weekly
diversity Talent Accelerator program that supports
professors to develop their strategic thinking and development goals. Brij the Gap was held twice in
the progression of underrepresented employees at
effective communication skills, learn business acumen FY23 with over 100 participants, 91 percent of whom
the senior manager level and helps enable participants
and influence change. Participants completed capstone reported that the program provided them with a
to become leading change makers and role models
projects to address specific business problems. More robust set of tools and education on how to operate
at Visa. Of the 17 participants in 2023, over 20 percent
than 90 percent of participants agreed that the program successfully in their careers.
have been promoted into Director-level roles in various
sharpened their strategic thinking skills.
• I to the 4th Power: A six-week career development functions across the business.
offering in partnership with Clear Strategy Coaching.
Visa also offers development programs to support • MentoRING: In our AP region, the Young Professionals
Employees attend interactive classes, can participate in
employees of all backgrounds as they transition into Employee Resource Group (ERG) continued a three-
optional office hours and question and answer sessions
new experiences and job levels: month group MentoRING program where senior leaders
and receive a personalized 30-minute coaching
are paired with mentees across the region to discuss
session. I to the 4th Power was held twice in FY23 with
topics such as career planning, building networks,
over 100 participants, 93 percent of whom reported
finding purpose and work-life balance.
that the program provided them with tools and career
Workforce Demographics1
3% 3%
Gender in Global Workforce 58% 42% 8% 42% 6% 60%
13% 13% Asian
Gender in Global Leadership2 64% 36%
Black
Ethnicities Ethnicities Hispanic
Gender in U.S. Workforce 56% 44%
in U.S. in U.S.
White
Workforce Leadership
Gender in U.S. Leadership 63% 37%
18% Other3
Male Female
35%
Bar chart showing Visa's Gender in Global Workforce distribution as of September 30, 2023. 58% of Visa's global workforce identifies as male Pie chart showing Visa's Ethnicities in U.S. Workforce distribution as of September 30, 2023. 42% of Visa's U.S. workforce identifies as
and 42% identifies as emale. Bar chart showing Visa's Gender in Global Leadership distribution as of September 30, 2023. 64% of Visa's global Asian, 8% as Black, 13% as Hispanic, 35% as White and 3% as Other. Pie chart showing Visa's Ethnicities in U.S. Leadership distribution
leadership identifies as male and 36% identifies asemale. Bar chart showing Visa's Gender in U.S. Workforce distribution as of September 30, 2023. as of September 30, 2023. 18% of Visa's U.S. leadership identifies as Asian, 6% as Black, 13% as Hispanic, 60% as White and 3% as Othe.
56% of Visa's U.S. workforce identifies as male and 44% identifies asemale. Bar chart showing Visa's Gender in U.S. Leadership distribution as of
September 30, 2023. 63% of Visa's U.S. leadership identifies as male and 3% identifies as emale.
1. Demographic data is based on Company records as of September 30, 2023. Percentages may not add up to 100% due to rounding.
2. Leadership: Defined as Vice President and above.
3. Other: Defined as American Indian/Alaska Native, Native Hawaiian/Other Pacific Islander and two or more races. Ethnicity data does not include employees who choose not to disclose or who leave the field blank.
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 40
Developing the Future Workforce • Visa’s Military Talent Program: A program that Allyship efforts include shared experiences through our
actively recruits and hires military veterans, reservists Inclusion and Diversity Talks speaker series, a global
Sourcing world-class talent to join the Visa team and and military spouses to provide training and reskilling. education opportunity for Visa employees designed to
investing in new talent pipelines can help bring greater By creating a pipeline of military-affiliated talent, Visa promote active learning. We host guest speakers in this
diversity to our company. Our talent strategy helps create has an opportunity to provide training in areas such as series for thought-provoking conversations that embrace
access to opportunities that did not previously exist for payments cybersecurity that builds on their existing global experiences and points of view.
historically underrepresented individuals. skill sets and rich diversity of experience.
In 2023, we continued Leading and Belonging at Visa,
In 2023, we launched the Visa Payments Learning In AP, we launched the Visa Returnship Program, which a learning experience for leaders provided in partnership
Program, designed to upskill employees, students, gives women in technology who have taken a career break with the Perception Institute, an organization that
clients and military talent through training courses and an opportunity to upskill and re-enter the workforce. We translates research on race and other identities into
certifications to support a sustainable and diverse talent also partnered with a nongovernmental organization and solutions that help reduce bias and promote belonging.
pipeline. The initial focus of this program is centered local training provider to provide employability training
around payments cybersecurity, created in response for women students in Bengaluru and Karnataka in India. Employee Resource Groups
to the White House National Cybersecurity Strategy Under this three-month program, students participated in
Implementation Plan, which calls on businesses to 130 hours of in-person and online training and mentorship With over 12,000 members across the globe, Visa’s ERGs
heighten cybersecurity pathways for individuals as the from Visa leaders and industry experts. Selected students are employee-led networks that support a diverse,
need for skilled cyber professionals continues to increase. were given the opportunity to join the early careers team. equitable and inclusive workplace. The ERGs complement
our broader corporate inclusion and diversity efforts and
Currently available in the U.S. with plans to expand These new initiatives complement existing programs
help foster an inclusive work environment that derives the
globally, the Visa Payments Learning Program focused on the future workforce, including apprenticeship
benefits of diverse employees’ talents, skills and abilities.
comprises several cross-functional programs, including programs in the U.K., the Visa Technology Training
Visa's Apprenticeship Program and Visa’s Military Talent Program in Singapore and the Visa Learnership Program In 2022, we laid the foundation for increased ERG
Program, which allows for diverse avenues in South Africa. effectiveness and impact by launching a global ERG
of upskilling and creates new opportunities for strategy. The strategy included the development of annual
untapped communities. In 2023, cross-functional Fostering Allyship operating plans through a centralized budget, adoption
programs included: of an ERG management platform and the publishing of
We engage in active allyship and support efforts to dashboards to improve reporting of ERG impact metrics.
• Visa’s Apprenticeship Program: Through this
reduce unconscious bias in the workplace because we Each ERG was assigned an executive committee-level
program an initial cohort received 16 weeks of
believe these initiatives foster inclusion. We encourage sponsor to champion the ERG and advise on strategy
specialist training, will take part in Visa’s Payments
employees to gain knowledge of colleagues’ backgrounds and goal setting.
Cybersecurity Introductory Course and participate
and experiences. We provide training opportunities to
in a one-year apprenticeship. This apprenticeship
equip our employees with resources and tools to become
provides talent of all backgrounds on-the-job training
active allies and learn behaviors that build a workplace
to help build the technical and business skills needed
where diverse perspectives are valued.
to succeed as cyber professionals.
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 41
In 2023, Visa’s ERGs included: To help ensure Visa products and services are Visa continues to reflect historically underrepresented
accessible to users with disabilities, the global and groups in our marketing campaigns, events and
• Visa Latinx Connect
regional accessibility teams collaborate with product sponsorships, such as the Team Visa program. Through
• Visa Native, Allies, Tribal and Indigenous Voices designers, developers and other experts across the the program, Visa partners with a diverse set of athletes
Everywhere (NATIVE) company. The accessibility team provides technical who are representative of the communities where we live
and strategic consulting, design reviews, VGAR auditing and work and who use the program’s platform to share
• Visa Military Employee Resource Group (MERG)
and maintenance, training, strategic partnerships the inspiring stories of their personal journeys, athletic
• Visa Parents and Carers
and governance. achievements and community involvement.
• Visa Asians Standing Together (VAST)
To promote ease and consistency, we also created the Since 2000, the Team Visa athlete program has
• Visa Employees with Visible/Invisible Disabilities (Viable)
Visa Global Accessibility Requirements (VGAR) to support championed nearly 700 Olympic and Paralympic
• Visa Black Employee Network (ViBE) Visa staff. VGAR is a five-step method that supports athletes selected based on their athletic achievements,
compliance with international accessibility standards community involvement and alignment with Visa’s core
• Visa Indian Alliance (VINA)
and requirements. For more on VGAR, please visit the values of equality, access and inclusion.
• Visa PRIDE
Visa Developer Center.
• Visa Women’s Network (VWN)
Visa has updated VGAR to reflect the Web Content
• Visa Young Professionals (VYP)
Accessibility Guidelines 2.2, the global standard for
• Visa Race Ethnicity and Cultural Heritage (REACH) – accessibility that aims to help reduce barriers for people
E.U. only with disabilities.
Promoting Accessibility Marketing Responsibly
At Visa, we focus on creating inclusive and accessible We use the strength and influence of the Visa brand
products that can serve as many people as possible. By to foster inclusive communities. Our Creative Review
leveraging an inclusion-first approach, we can develop Council for Inclusion and Equity reviews and advises
products that reflect the diversity of experiences of on various U.S. marketing and communications campaigns
our clients, partners and consumers. Furthermore, we to embed input from historically underrepresented
believe inclusive product design leads to better and more communities, supporting Visa’s dedication to responsible
thoughtful products. marketing. The Advisory Council consists of Visa
employees who are members of an ERG with diverse
Accessibility involves designing, developing and testing
racial, cultural and gender identities and represent
digital experiences to make them accessible for people
varying job levels across departments and office locations
with disabilities, including those that affect a user’s visual,
in the U.S.
mobility, cognitive or hearing ability. Thoughtful design and
implementation help create a good user experience for all.
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 42
Employee Engagement
At Visa, we believe that building an inclusive, high-
performing culture requires an engaged workforce, where
Lead Obsess about
employees are motivated to do their best work every day.
Courageously Customers
Our engagement approach centers on communication,
monitoring and recognition.
Lead Courageously Obsess about Customers
Visa Leadership Principles
Act like an owner. We think about every opportunity, Listen and learn from customers. We seek to deeply
investment, and resource as if Visa were our family’s understand our customers to enable them to achieve
At Visa, all employees are encouraged and empowered to
business. We are emotionally invested in driving long-term their goals.
be leaders by embracing the Visa Leadership Principles. growth and value. We are committed, resourceful, and
Dream, design, and build the future of payments.
proactive in identifying problems, opportunities,
These Leadership Principles are integrated into core talent We anticipate end users’ needs and create simple,
and solutions.
compelling solutions to address them.
processes and, since their introduction six years ago, have
Think big and challenge the status quo. We are
enhanced how we evaluate performance and drive the constantly curious about our industry, technology, and the Sell with pride and purpose. We are proud of our
solutions and we build deep, trust-based partnerships
company’s success. world. We set bold aspirations and develop new ideas that that drive mutual growth.
shape the future of commerce.
To lead the next wave of momentum and support our Hold ourselves and each other accountable. We take
responsibility for our behaviors, actions, and decisions.
ambitious organizational growth plans, we updated
We act with integrity, have the courage to stand up for
our Leadership Principles in FY23 to bring new meaning what is right, and hold each other accountable to deliver.
and direction to the way we act and lead. Our evolved
Leadership Principles aim to drive clarity and specificity
around the behaviors that will contribute to Visa’s future
Collaborate as Execute with
success while building on our strengths.
One Visa Excellence
Collaborate as One Visa Execute with Excellence
Champion inclusion and diversity. We treat everyone Decide quickly and move fast. We make the best call
with respect. We excel by harnessing the power of based on the available data. We take calculated risks
diversity of all kinds to drive innovation and fuel and have a bias for action, even when it means we must
our growth. disagree and commit.
Encourage constructive debate. We pursue the truth in Deliver seamlessly. We strive for simplicity and make it
everything we do. We communicate openly and honestly. easy to get things done. We plan carefully and execute
We speak our minds respectfully, always assuming good successfully to exceed expectations.
intent and keeping an open mind.
Learn from our mistakes. We own our mistakes and
Enable each other to succeed. We work and win address them. We change our decisions when new
together as partners. We remove barriers and empower facts emerge.
teams to maximize the impact of our collective resources
and capabilities.
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 43
Employee Value Proposition Through our survey, we heard that 92 percent of employees to give recognition to their peers, promoting
participating employees understand the link between a positive work culture that values and celebrates all
Visa’s Employee Value Proposition (EVP), Powering their work and our company’s strategic objectives.4 employees. To reinforce our Leadership Principles and
Payments, Uplifting People, was launched in 2022 The survey also reported that: the pillars of our EVP, we have embedded these initiatives
and in 2023 was embedded and implemented across into UPLIFT so that managers and peers can recognize
• 91 percent would recommend Visa as a great
new programs and processes, including onboarding, employees who exemplify and exhibit these values.
place to work.
recognition and recruitment resources. The EVP is linked
We also offer employees the opportunity to connect
to our purpose and designed to help attract new talent • 89 percent of employees are proud to work for a
with one another through the Employee Connections
and engage and retain current employees by fostering purpose-driven company.
program. Offered globally to employees at the senior
opportunities for meaningful conversations, driving
• 88 percent said their manager’s actions reflect
director level and below, the program was launched
awareness and providing tools that resonate with internal
commitment to the new Visa Leadership Principles.
in August 2023 and has already seen engagement with
and external audiences.
nearly 5,000 employees.
Additionally, in 2023, 95 percent of employees reported
Visa conducted employee research and identified three
that they feel proud to work for Visa, eight points higher
With the programs we have established, employee
key areas where we thrive: impact, growth and inclusivity.
than the software and service industry average. This
sentiment is on the rise. In 2023, 81 percent of responding
At Visa, our employees appreciate that they can make
strong engagement reflects high marks for manager
employees reported that they feel appropriately
an impact with a purpose-driven industry leader, drive
effectiveness and notable progress across key areas of
recognized for doing really good work, seven points
their personal development within a growing company
focus, including belonging and career growth.
higher than the software and service industry average.
and be part of a people-centered company that invests
in them directly.
Employee Recognition
Employee Communications
Employee Surveys & Employee
In recent years, Visa has prioritized and invested
Visa values maintaining various streams of communication
Feedback
in employee recognition, which in turn helps drive
with our employees to keep them informed and to
engagement. We revitalized Visa’s recognition approach
listen to their needs. In FY23, we communicated with
We assess employee engagement through a variety of
with the launch of our UPLIFT program in April 2023.
our employees through regular video updates from our
channels, including employee surveys that elicit feedback
This innovative program broadened the scope of
CEO, company intranet, digital signage, social media, Visa
on company direction and strategy, wellbeing, inclusion
recognition in line with our company purpose to uplift
TV, email newsletters, live events in regional offices and
and diversity, individual growth and development,
everyone, everywhere. The program is supported by a
quarterly townhall meetings. Visa also conducts employee
collaboration, role alignment and support, pride and
robust communications campaign that keeps recognition
surveys, live question and answer sessions and fireside
other topics.
at the forefront.
chats to encourage employees to share their voice with
the company.
One of the key features of UPLIFT is its inclusivity, as it
allows employees to feel recognized, appreciated and
celebrated no matter their role or level, empowering all
4. Overall employee response rate was 92 percent.
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 44
Visa Total Rewards
We structure our total rewards and benefits package In 2023, Visa broadened the scope of the following Recognizing variations in work and collaboration around
to attract and retain a talented and engaged global coverages for employees: the world and across functions, we provide leaders
workforce. We routinely review end-to-end total rewards with the flexibility to create hybrid plans that support
• Family Care: Our Family Emergency Leave now
for all employees to align with the EVP and to ensure our their individual teams. As part of these hybrid plans,
incorporates additional situations and scenarios to
benefits package reflects our values and culture. most employees work in the office at least 50 percent of
address unique caring needs.
the time. Our updated approach gives our employees
We provide comprehensive wellbeing, financial and
• Child and elder care services: We expanded our child flexibility balanced with the benefits of working together
quality-of-life benefits and continue to evolve our
and adult/elder care offerings in the U.S. to include in-person. We continue to execute our flexible hybrid work
programs to meet employee needs. Our benefits package
a broader network of care centers and discounts on strategy with a focus on “the three C’s”—collaboration,
includes competitive compensation, incentive plans,
tutoring, summer camps, STEM programs and childcare. connection and community— to foster a strong and
a two-for-one 401(k) match in the U.S., mental health
rewarding culture within Visa.
• U.S. Healthcare: We introduced a new no-cost dental
resources and flexible work arrangements.
option for employee-only coverage and vision plan
In FY23, we continued No Meeting Friday Afternoons
Additional benefits vary by location and may include: enhancements like essential medical eye care, which
and offered summer Wellbeing Hours to give employees
will provide access to a variety of screenings and exams,
additional time to focus on themselves. We held sessions
• Employee Stock Purchase Plan
for a minimal copay.
for employees to learn insights and tips from outside
• Paid new child bonding leave, with a minimum of
experts about mental health and wellbeing.
For comprehensive information about employee benefits,
14 weeks for all parents
please visit Visa’s Benefits website.
During Mental Health Awareness Month, we featured 27
• Family emergency leave
events designed to reduce stigma around mental health.
• Education assistance tuition reimbursement program Employee Wellbeing
In 2023, Visa continued to share tools, workshops and
• Child and elder care services
Promoting good mental health in the workplace is priority wellbeing benefits programs organized by region through
• Concierge and errand running services
for our business and our employees. As a company, we our Be Well Wellbeing Hub. We also encourage employees
• Various insurance products are demonstrating our deep commitment to employees’ to join our Be Well Community to connect with colleagues
mental health and wellbeing by expanding our wellness for wellness-focused activities and events.
• Fertility, surrogacy and adoption benefits
offerings—not just for extreme circumstances, but for
• Milk shipping and lactation support
every day.
• Discount programs
We offer free telephone or in-person therapy for all
• Generous paid time off and holidays
global employees 24 hours a day, seven days a week via
• Paid volunteer time and time off for voting in elections our mental health benefit and our employee assistance
program. In the U.S., mental health and coaching services
• Ability to work from another location for up to
are also available by phone, in app, video chat or in person.
four weeks
All U.S.-based employees are eligible to use these services,
• Commuter assistance
regardless of enrollment in other Visa benefits.
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 45
Compensation Philosophy
At Visa, we conduct annual compensation reviews to
help confirm our total rewards are market leading. As
part of this review, we ensure that we pay at or above
any regulated minimum wage in each market. We also
participate in dozens of market surveys that span the
multiple geographies where we have employees, and a
variety of industries, including Information Technology,
Financial Services and General Industry.
We also conduct benchmarking and market analysis
to confirm competitiveness with local markets and to
determine paylines — used for creating internal and
external offers — and other enhancements.
For example, in the U.S., all full-time employees are paid a
$20 per hour minimum, regardless of lower local minimum
wages. In Europe, Visa participates in the U.K. living wage
standards. As shared in our proxy statement, for FY23,
our median employee earned approximately $150,000.
Regarding non-employee contingent workers, all Visa
As part of building an inclusive and equitable organization,
suppliers are subject to our Supplier Code of Conduct,
we are committed to tracking, measuring, evaluating and In FY23: Women earned $1.00
which sets forth Visa’s expectation that suppliers meet
reporting annually on our workforce demographics and
for every $1.00 earned by men
International Labour Organization (ILO) standards for their
pay equity.
workers. Suppliers are required to comply with applicable
for the same work globally, and
Visa’s goal is to include 100 percent of regular, active wage and hour labor laws and regulations and should
employees in fully integrated subsidiaries in our equal ensure appropriate work hours and pay fair wages in line underrepresented employees
pay analysis. Our most recent analysis was based on FY23 with ILO standards.
earned $1.00 for every $1.00
total compensation, which includes base salary, annual
cash incentives and annual long-term incentive awards. earned by white employees for
We met our goal of including 100 percent of all regular,
the same work in the U.S.
active employees of all fully integrated subsidiaries as of
September 30, 2023, in our FY23 equal pay analysis.
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 46
Employee Safety & Security
Visa has a long-standing commitment to protecting the Visa assesses and manages safety risks, provides security Select Corporate
physical safety of our global workforce. Responsibility measures and oversees emergency response
and oversight of employee safety resides with the Visa by monitoring: Recognition
Global Security and Safety (GSS) team, which promotes
• Emerging security threats, such as natural disasters,
the safety of Visa’s employees and contingent workers by
establishing health and safety practices. The GSS team civil unrest and terrorist attacks identified through • Gender-Equality Index (Bloomberg, 2023)
security, government and media sources.
maintains a global Safety, Health and Environmental Policy • Equality 100 Award: Leader in LGBTQ+ Inclusion
and provides relevant training to the executive team and • Personnel on business travel and employees (Human Rights Campaign, 2023-2024)
key employees. who are working outside their home countries.
• Black Equity Index Inaugural Member
To track our health and safety performance, Visa conducts • Company assets, including facilities and strategic (Coqual)
third-party sites.
monthly and annual audits of our health and safety • 100% on the Disability Equality Index &
equipment and facilities. Each month we track and audit In 2023, we took steps to educate employees around Best Place to Work for People with Disabilities
our near misses, injuries and worker compensation claims. physical security to support flexible work and provide (Disability Equality Index, 2023)
Since 2022, we have led a global safety campaign designed appropriate security presence across our sites. We also • Corporate Inclusion Index, 5-Star Rating for
to teach lifesaving skills that help keep our workplace continued to support employee safety by providing Employment, Governance and Philanthropy
safe. Employees participate in classes to become Safety information and resources for employees to work (Hispanic Association on Corporate
Ambassadors and learn how to administer adult and effectively and safely. Responsibility, 2023)
pediatric First Aid, CPR/AED or Stop the Bleed procedures, In addition, Visa maintains an Ergonomics Program to help • Inclusion Index (Seramount, 2023)
as well as personal security awareness. In FY23, nearly
employees create an environment in which they can work • America's Greatest Workplaces for Diversity
5,000 participants attended these classes. Since
comfortably and productively from anywhere. (Newsweek, 2024)
launching our global safety campaign, more than 8,500
participants have been trained through 685 classes. We The Ergonomics Program, which is available to employees • America's Greatest Workplaces for Remote Work
believe these classes are not only important for improving globally, including telecommuters, and includes an (Newsweek, 2023)
the safety of our workplace, but that they also help the online office ergonomics training and guidance on how
families, neighbors and communities of Visa employees to identify opportunities to improve working habits and
be more prepared for an emergency. adjust workspaces. Upon completion of the training,
employees receive a personalized plan to address
ergonomic issues.
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 47
Protecting the Planet
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 48
Visa believes in the importance of helping to protect our planet and its natural resources Science-based net-zero target: Achieve net-zero emissions in alignment with
and supporting climate action. We strive to use our products, services, network, expertise, the SBTi net zero framework from our scopes 1, 2 and 3 emissions by 2040.
brand and partnerships to minimize the environmental footprint of our operations,
inspire and empower sustainable commerce and support the global transition to a Climate positive company: Support positive climate action beyond our
low-carbon economy. operational footprint by leveraging our products, services, network and other
resources.
Our strategy focuses on three pillars:
Visa’s net-zero emissions by 2040 goal aligns with and has been submitted to the SBTi for
• Sustainable Operations
approval in 2024. This target includes efforts to engage with suppliers to abate a significant
• Sustainable Movement portion of the GHG footprint of Visa’s purchased goods and services, which are detailed
in this chapter. Visa’s science-based near-term targets are approved by the SBTi at the 1.5°
• Climate Tech Solutions
Celsius ambition level.
Visa aims to be among global corporate leaders in this decisive decade of action.
To continue advancing Visa’s ambitious climate goals, we are developing a Climate
The following climate-related goals and aspirations guide our efforts:
Transition Plan that refers to guidance set forth from climate strategy frameworks such as
Carbon neutral operations: Maintain carbon neutrality of our operations the Transition Plan Taskforce (TPT) and Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Center for
(scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and the business travel Corporate Climate Leadership. This plan is designed to guide progress towards Visa’s net-
(category 6) and employee commuting (category 7) components of scope 3). zero target, details our reduction pathways and provides insight on key initiatives such as
supplier engagement, policy engagement, board oversight and reporting.
Science-based near-term targets: Reduce absolute scope 1 and 2 GHG
emissions 50 percent by FY30 from a FY20 base year. Reduce absolute scope 3
GHG emissions 42 percent within the same timeframe.
Green Bond
In support of our climate goals and initiatives, in 2020, Visa issued our inaugural $500 million Green Bond. In alignment with our Green
Bond Framework, we are using our Green Bond to finance the construction and operation of highly efficient buildings with a focus on
energy and water efficiency improvements. As detailed in our 2023 Green Bond Report, Visa has allocated $391.0 million as of March
31, 2023 in eligible spend on projects that meet the Eligibility Criteria in accordance with the Use of Proceeds defined in the Green Bond
Framework. Details on specific projects financed by the Green Bond can also be found in our annual Green Bond Report.
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 49
Sustainable Operations
Our initiatives to deliver on our climate-related corporate Visa Data Center Power Usage Effectiveness (PUE) – 2017-2023
goals begin with our efforts within Visa. We continue to
work to reduce the environmental footprint from our 2.5
business activities, which primarily include data centers
and offices, employee commuting, business travel, 2.0
corporate events and purchased goods and services
U.K.
from our suppliers. 1.5
U.S. – East
U.S. – Central
Greening Our Offices & Data Centers 1.0
Global
Weighted
Visa is committed to reducing the environmental 0.5 Average
impact of our offices and data centers by implementing
green building design and managing energy and water use. 0.0
2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Our approach includes obtaining the U.S. Green Building
Council’s Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design Bar chart showing Visa's Data Center Power Usage Effectiveness from 2017 to 2023 in the U.K, U.S. East and U.S. Central. There is gradual downward trend across
all seven years, as the global weighted average drops from 1.84 in 2017 to 1.45 in 2023.
(LEED), Building Research Establishment Environmental
Assessment Method (BREEAM), Green Mark or equivalent
certifications for the design, construction and build-out of
our office facilities. We use green building standards and • Implementing ongoing improvements to our data Ecosystems & Biodiversity
guidelines to increase resource use efficiency within our centers, including upgrading and replacing server
existing buildings. and infrastructure equipment and server racks. As a technology company, Visa’s direct impact on
ecosystems and biodiversity is limited. We work to
As of September 30, 2023, Visa owned or leased 144 office • Operating a new highly efficient modular data center
mitigate these limited impacts and include nature-based
locations in 82 countries, including four global processing unit with contained cooling at our Highlands Ranch data
solutions like forest conservation, agriculture and soil
centers, 80 percent of which had achieved or was pending center location.
management projects in our carbon offset strategy.
green building certification.
In FY23, Visa’s data centers accounted for 66 percent of Visa also considers our impact to local ecosystems and
In 2023, Visa made progress toward our goals by: our total electricity consumption and remain an important biodiversity through our commitment to implementing
focus of our sustainable operations efforts. In 2023, we green building design in offices and data centers, which
• Purchasing 100 percent solar energy at our Ashburn achieved year-over-year improvements in our data center includes landscaping and water. Visa has also partnered
data center from new solar power projects located energy efficiency, measured by power usage effectiveness with organizations like One Tree Planted for tree planting
in southeastern Virginia. (PUE). Globally, the PUE in our data centers has improved and volunteer events.
by 21 percent since 2017.1
1. The average PUE value represents a weighted average, based on the reported PUE metrics and total energy consumption at each of our data center locations.
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 50
Renewable Electricity Travel & Events
Visa continues to meet our goal of purchasing 100 percent We continue to identify and implement steps to reduce
renewable electricity for our offices and data centers the environmental footprint of our employee commuting,
through participation in power purchase agreements business travel and corporate events.
and utility renewable energy programs and through the
Visa helps eligible employees reduce the emissions from
purchase of renewable energy certificates (RECs). Visa also
their commutes by providing subsidies for public transit
continues to champion the broader corporate renewable
and bicycle commuting and access to electric vehicle (EV)
energy movement, including through our membership in
chargers in select locations in North America.
RE100 and the Clean Energy Buyers Association.
Visa leases a minimal fleet of ground vehicles for
In 2023, our multi-year agreement with Shell Energy
maintenance, security and, in some cases, employee
Solutions shifted to source from Virginia solar projects
transport that we aspire to convert to 100 percent EVs
to provide 100 percent renewable electricity for Visa’s
by 2030. The electricity used to charge these vehicles
largest data center, accounting for about 45 percent of
is typically covered by our 100 percent renewable
our total global electricity usage. The agreement, which
electricity goal.
includes the procurement of renewable electricity and
renewable energy credits, showcases Visa’s commitment
As a participant in the United Airlines Eco-Skies Alliance,
and investment in Virginia over the next six years and
we aim to address emissions related to business travel
directly supports the Virginia Clean Economy Act, which
and support the advancement of the use of sustainable
is expected to create nearly 30,000 new solar jobs in the
aviation fuel (SAF) in air travel. Through the Alliance, we
Commonwealth by 2030.
are working to reduce the carbon emissions from our
business travel on United Airlines by helping to fund the
We remain focused on identifying opportunities to
green premium for SAF. Our participation aligns with Visa’s
increase additionality to the grid through investments
signatory commitment to Clean Skies for Tomorrow,
and enrollments in renewable electricity offerings,
a coalition of leaders in sustainable aviation.
including through long-term renewable electricity
purchase agreements, while reducing our purchase
In 2023, we launched a Sustainable Travel Initiative
of unbundled RECs.
for our employees to make sustainable travel options
more accessible so that employees can reduce the
environmental footprint associated with business
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 51
travel. Visa partnered with travel providers to showcase Suppliers In 2024, we will continue to focus our supplier
the emissions impacts with various flight options and engagement efforts on our top 500 suppliers.
encourage employees to rent electric vehicles and use Visa believes in the importance of addressing the
To guide our approach to achieving Visa’s ambitious
Uber Green when possible. We are monitoring outcomes emissions from our purchased goods and services.
climate goals and to help monitor progress, Visa is
from these initiatives and aspire to report on progress Our efforts to engage suppliers include:
developing a Climate Transition Plan in line with guidance
in future reports.
• Incorporating environmental sustainability expectations set forth from the TPT and EPA Center for Corporate
in the Visa Supplier Code of Conduct (Supplier Code), Climate Leadership. This plan guides progress toward
Employees
which suppliers receive during the onboarding process. Visa’s net-zero target and details our reduction pathways
Visa strives to inspire our employees around the world • Participating in the CDP Supply Chain program, and other key initiatives such as supplier engagement,
to be sustainability champions and advocates in the through which we engage our leading suppliers around policy engagement, board oversight, reporting and others.
workplace, at home and in our communities. Throughout measuring their emissions footprints, setting targets,
In early 2024, we updated our Supplier Code of Conduct
the year we offer tips and suggestions for integrating reporting to the CDP and attributing their footprint
to include clear expectations about suppliers reporting
sustainability into daily life through webinars, emails back to Visa.
emissions and setting targets to reduce them. For more
and videos.
Since joining the CDP Supply Chain program in 2019, information, see Responsible Sourcing.
Central to our efforts is our annual global Visa Earth Month Visa has expanded outreach to our top 500 suppliers,
series of events held each April. In 2023, we hosted: representing approximately 85 percent of annual spend Our Results
with suppliers. Visa’s supply chain emissions represent 84
• Speaker Series: focused on topics including sustainable Visa has conducted an annual global environmental
percent of total scope 3 emissions.
operations, travel, mobility and major sports events. footprint assessment with support from leading
Among Visa’s suppliers who responded to our request third-party firms to help measure and manage our
• Earth Month Eco-Challenges: enabled employees to
to participate in the 2023 CDP Supply Chain program: environmental impact since 2008. Each year, we measure
calculate their personal carbon footprints and make
our global energy use, GHG emissions, water use, waste
simple commitments to reduce their impact.
• 93 percent reported their operational emissions.
production and landfill diversion rate. We also seek
• Employee Sustainable Living Survey: identified the
• 72 percent reported active targets, and 43 percent external verification of our GHG emissions through an
aspirations, barriers and areas of most interest among
had validated near-term SBTi targets. independent third party to the limited assurance level.
employees around greener living.
• 83 percent reported emissions reduction. Visa’s 2023 GHG Verification Statement is publicly
available on our website and included in the Appendix of
We also offer an ongoing sustainability learning path within
• 76 percent reported renewable energy use.
this report. We use international standards, including the
Visa University, our training and development platform.
• 74 percent reported initiatives to engage their GHG Protocol, to measure and report GHG emissions.
We designed the learning path to provide employees
own suppliers.
with a foundation in topics and solutions related to
sustainability and climate change.
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 52
Operational Emissions (MT CO e)
2
100,000 94,500
80,000
78,70079,50076,50080,60084,200
60,000
64,30069,10063,40060,10059,800
Energy & Greenhouse Gas Emissions
40,000
Scope 1
Globally, momentum continues to accelerate around the need to urgently act on climate 20,000 13,900 4,000 6,400 10,600 Scope 22
0
change and transition to a low-carbon economy. Visa is responding by taking bold steps to -20,000
-19,154
C offar sb eo tsn
reduce our GHG emissions. -40,000 -34,456
-46,100
-60,000
-66,300
Visa continues to maintain carbon neutrality across our operations, which we achieved for -70,000
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
the first time in 2020. We define operational carbon neutrality as including the footprint
Stacked bar chart showing Visa's Operational Emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent for Scope 1 and 2 emissions from 2009 to 2023. There is a
from our scope 1, scope 2 and the employee commuting and business travel components downward trend in Scope 1 and 2 emissions; however, there was a slight increase in 2023 compared to last year, resulting in Scope 1 and 2 metric tons
of CO2 equivalent increase from 6,400 to 10,600. Visa's Scope 1 emissions remained relatively consistent year over year. Visa's Scope 2 emissions
were also relatively consistent from 2009 to 2019, dropping signifiantly in 2020 before dropping to zero in 2021 and 2022. In 2023, there was an
of our scope 3 GHG emissions. Our ability to maintain carbon neutrality is the result of increase in Scope 2 emissions from zero in 2022 to 300 in 2023. The chart also shows Visa's carbon offsets, beginning in 2 20 through 2023. In 2023,
Visa invested in carbon offsets equialent to 66,300 metric tons of CO2 equivalent.
ongoing energy efficiency initiatives, our transition to 100 percent renewable electricity
Operational Emissions Relative to 2009 (MT CO e)
and limited use of carbon offsets to cover our residual footprint. 2
0%
-20%
Absolute
24% reduction in scopes 1 & 2 emissions
-40% MTCO₂e per
square foot
GHG emissions since FY20.
-60% MTCO2e per
employee
MTCO2e per
-80% million dollar
revenue
In FY23, we used approximately 841,000 gigajoules (GJ) of energy from electricity,
natural gas and other fuels. -100%
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Line graph showing Visa's Operational Emissions Relative to 2009 in metric tons of CO2 equivalent. There are four lines on the graph, including:
Performance highlights include: absolute emissions, metric tons of CO2 equivalent per square foot, metric tons of CO2 equivalent per employee and metric tons of CO2 equivalent
per million dollar revenue. The graph shows the overall percentage decrease from 2009 to 2023. There is a strong downward trend from 2009 to
2019, and a sharp decline from 2019 to 2022 across all four lines. Visa's absolute emissions increased slightly in 2023 compared to 2022.
• Emissions: Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions, measured in absolute terms with a
Scope 3 Emissions (MTCO e)
market-based approach, were 10,600 metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent 2
600,000
(MTCO₂e) in 2023, a 24 percent reduction relative to FY20. 527,700
500,000 Downstream leased assets
• Energy intensity: In FY23, total energy use and energy intensity per square foot
400,000 409,200 403,900 409,500 Employee commuting
increased, largely as a result of returning to pre-pandemic business operations.
321,000 Business travel
300,000
• Climate reporting and transparency: In 2023, Visa responded to the CDP Climate Waste generated in operations
200,000 Fuel- and energy-related activities
Change questionnaire for the 13th consecutive year and received an A- rating.
Purchased goods and services
Visa’s CDP response is available on our corporate website and CDP.net. 100,000
0
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
2. Visa’s growth in scope 2 emissions can be attributed to an improved accounting for RECS which led to an increase in market-based Scope 2 Stacked bar chart showing Visa's Scope 3 emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent from 2019 to 2023. There are six categories, including:
emissions. Visa has adjusted the Scope 2 accounting procedure so that RECs are only applied to energy purchases in the same market as the RECs downstream leased assets, employee commuting, business travel, waste generated in operations, fuel- and energy-related services and purchased
are generated. There are locations around the world where RECs are not available or where Visa will not purchase at this time (Russia). The Visa goods and services. Between 2019 and 2021, there was a slight decrease across all six categories. Beginning in 2022, there was a slight increase in
team has identified the locations of these energy purchases that cannot be offset with local RECs and applied the emission factor for the relevant Visa's Scope 3 emissions to 403,900 metric tons of CO2 equivalent, which increased slightly in 2023 to 409,500 metric tons of CO2 equivalent. From
domestic energy grid. In-market RECs for these locations will be procured if and when they become available. In FY23, Visa purchased RECs, in 2022 to 2023, Scope 3 emissions decreased in the purchased goods and services category, but increased in the employee commuting and business
accordance with RE100, equal to 99% of our total electricity footprint in order to mitigate against our total Scope 2 emissions. travel categories, which accounted for the overall increase.
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 53
Carbon Offsets forestland in the Keweenaw Bay Indian Community of Lake Superior in Michigan’s Upper
Peninsula. This project aims to minimize human-induced GHG emissions and the effects
We purchase a limited amount of carbon offset projects to mitigate our residual GHG
of climate change in the region by sustainably managing forest that may otherwise be
emissions. Our carbon offsets portfolio spans regions in which we operate and includes
degraded from conventional logging practices. Additionally, in Guinea-Bissau we invest
projects such as forest management in the U.S., reforestation in Uruguay, renewable
in a community forest protection project. The project aims to halt deforestation within
energy generation in Turkey, China and India and clean cookstove initiatives in Kenya
the Cacheu Mangrove Forest National Park and the Cantanhez Forest National Park and
and Uganda.
contribute toward sustainable livelihoods for the communities surrounding the parks.
We prioritize nature-based solutions in our carbon mitigation strategy. For example,
Visa plans to continue purchasing carbon offsets to maintain carbon neutrality and to
we invest in an improved forest management project covering 12,500 acres of tribal
cover residual emission to meet our net-zero target.
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 54
Total Water Usage (in Millions of Liters)
400
357.4 365.0
350 331.7 339.1 340.9
Water 23% 312.7 310.7 301.1
300 18% 25% 26% 270.9 36%
28% 30%
250 41% Reclaimed
We believe in the importance of protecting water as a shared resource, particularly in
200 46% Potable
water-stressed areas. As a payments technology company, Visa’s business is not water
intensive, although we do implement data-driven strategies to reduce the total water use 11 050 0 82% 77% 72% 75% 74% 70% 59% 64%
54%
at our offices and data centers. Our data centers are some of our largest water users, and 50
we are working to improve water efficiency and reduce use at these sites by: 0
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Stacked bar chart showing Visa's total water usage in millions of liters from 2015 to 2023, broken into reclaimed and potable water. Between 2021 and
• Utilizing reclaimed water at our eastern U.S. data center, our largest overall water user. 2023, there was an increase in total water usage from 270.9 millions of liters to 365.000 millions of liters.
This site received approximately 95 percent of its water in 2023 from a reclaimed water
system, significantly reducing potable water withdrawal required at the site.
Change in Potable Water Use Relative to 2015
• Continuing to upgrade cooling towers at our central U.S. data center, Visa’s largest user
0%
of potable water. This initiative is expected to reduce annual water use by nearly 35
percent compared to the original system it is replacing. -20%
Liters
• Applying programs to reduce water use at our U.K. data center, such as utilizing a -40% L sqit ue ars re p fe or ot
closed-loop water system that helps eliminate water waste and reduce overall demand. Liters per
-60% m revill eio nn u ed ollar
In 2023, we used an estimated 61,850,000 gallons of potable water in our global portfolio. Liters per
-80% employee
Waste
-100%
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
While not a major producer of solid waste, Visa continues to work to reduce the amount Line graph showing Visa's change in potable water use relative to 2015 across four categories, including: liters, liters per square foot, liters per million
dollar revenue and liters per employee. The graph shows the percentage change between 2015 and 2023. There has been a year-over-year increase
of office waste we dispose of in landfills. Visa reduces waste streams at our office facilities in potable water use since 2021, following several years of decreased use. However, all four categories remain below the 2015 baseline in 2023.
and data centers through thoughtful design of our spaces and kitchenettes, engaging
with our food service providers, reducing single-use items and plastics and by engaging Waste by Destination
employees with waste education and awareness campaigns. 5% Achieved a landfill
30%
Incinerated
We continue to work to manage our e-waste responsibly and create opportunities for Composted diversion rate of nearly
employees to participate in e-waste recycling or reuse programs for personal devices.
50 percent, or 65 kg of
We partner with technology providers to buy back employee laptops and server
equipment for recycling or reuse at product end-of life. waste diverted from
17% 48% landfill per employee.2
Recycle/ Landfill
Reuse
Donut chart showing Visa's waste, divided by destination, for 2023. 48% of waste was landfilled, 30% omposted, 17% recycled or reused
2. Diversion rate per employee is calculated based on the total amount of Visa’s operational waste that is diverted from the landfill and 5% incinerated.
and incineration facilities in the reporting year divided by the total number of employees.
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 55
Sustainable Movement
Beyond our own operations, Visa supports the global Our 2023 highlights include:
movement toward more sustainable commerce and
• For the fifth year, Visa participated as a design partner
consumption, guided by our aspiration to become a
in GlobeScan’s Healthy and Sustainable Living Study,
climate-positive company. Our approach includes the
which focused on consumer attitudes, opinions and
following areas of focus:
behaviors linked to healthier and more sustainable
Visa Global • Research and insights: Supporting and conducting lifestyles in over 30 markets.
research to understand barriers to and drivers of
• Visa continued to conduct and disseminate additional
Print Project
sustainable living behaviors and the role that payments
research in select markets regarding the intersection of
can play in advancing sustainable consumption.
consumers, sustainable living and payments accounts.
• Sustainable Behaviors: Supporting sustainable Results continue to be shared with clients and partners
In 2022, we introduced the Visa Global Print
behaviors, such as in mobility and travel, on a global to inform sustainable payments offerings.
project, an initiative designed to reduce
scale, with the aim to support the shift in spend across
the number of pages printed in our offices • Visa continued our support of ThoughtLab on its
the categories of live, move, eat, travel, buy and invest.
worldwide and part of our broader corporate worldwide benchmarking study to analyze how
sustainability goals. • Consumer Engagement: Participating in consumer cities are future-proofing their urban environments.
engagement initiatives to make sustainable living more The study investigated the progress of 200 cities
The benefits of the project include:
attractive, rewarding and attainable. representing five percent of the world population across
digital infrastructure, living and health, transportation
• Enhancing security by requiring users to tap • Public Policy and Industry Engagement: Contributing
and other critical urban domains, as well as the level of
their badges to print all documents. to the public policy arena, as well as major public
transformation each city believed it required to meet
and private sector convenings, to advocate for more
• Increasing convenience and productivity
future urban demands. Tools developed from the study
sustainable commerce and climate action.
by allowing users to release their documents
are available on ThoughtLab’s Building a Future- Ready
from any enabled device without mapping
City microsite.
to multiple printers. Research & Insights
• In Visa’s latest Talk of The Town Report, we examined
• Reducing printing costs and environmental
Visa’s approach to supporting the shift of spend toward nearly 900 towns across the U.K. to identify their vitality
impact by restricting the default setting to
a more green and inclusive economy begins with our using five key indicators—economic prosperity, people
double sided printing and using black and
efforts to help the broader payments and commerce and skills, infrastructure, business environment and
white rather than color.
ecosystem understand the barriers to and drivers sustainability. The report looks to establish a research
Through enacting these simple changes, of sustainable living behaviors—particularly among foundation on which we can begin a broader program
we were able to avoid printing over four million consumers—and the opportunities for digital payments of work that will ultimately bring together businesses,
total pages in FY23—over 40 percent of total to support a low-carbon economy. partners and policymakers to drive forward economic
pages sent to print—saving paper, toner and success in towns, engage industries, governments and
energy and approximately 60 percent reduced other sectors, identify a scope of consensus among key
cost for Visa. stakeholders and build a coalition around key policy ideas.
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 56
• A 2023 Visa Global Economic Insight report on fashion
resale apps shed light on consumers’ changing
preferences in the world of fashion as a result of
multiple, converging trends, including growing concern
about the state of the planet, efforts to set policy
around resource efficiency and waste management
and high inflation. The report predicts that these
evolving consumer behaviors, catalyzed by emerging
technologies such as AI and blockchain, could usher
in the next wave of the circular economy.
• The Visa Economic Empowerment Institute
thought leadership agenda continues to include
topics that focus on the expansion of more sustainable
commerce, including opportunities to accelerate
public-private collaboration to drive sustainable Sustainable Spend & Money Movement
outcomes in travel and tourism, as well as the
To support the overall sustainable living movement, In Costa Rica, Visa has actively supported the government
positive impact of digital payments on the shift
Visa continues working in areas where we believe we can in its priorities to digitize mass transit use. Over 3.8
to more sustainable urban mobility.
help enable specific sustainable behaviors, including: million trips have been made using Visa to ride in Costa
Rican buses and trains, as of December 2023. Visa is
Transit
also supporting the Ministry of Economy, Industry and
We leverage our global network Visa is working to bring digital payments to people's Commerce in providing business skills, including how
to leverage digital payments, to SMEs through a digital
door-to-door transit journeys to help reduce emissions
to make it easier, more rewarding
training platform launched in January 2024.
and address climate change. Visa has partnered
and more accessible for people with transit agencies in cities worldwide, supporting
In Lisbon, Visa Acceptance Solutions helped
sustainable mobility through contactless ticketing and
and businesses to adopt Metropolitano de Lisboa became the first operator in
fare payment solutions.
Portugal to enable contactless payments, which are now
behaviors that help accelerate the
available at over 50 stations and 750 gates. This new,
Global Tap to Ride transactions were 1.6 billion for FY23,
transition to a sustainable future. seamless payment experience encourages more riders
up more than 30 percent, and we added nearly 150 new
to choose this environmentally friendly travel option. In
transit systems throughout the year, including systems in
addition to being more convenient, the smarter system
Philadelphia and Bangkok, which brought our footprint to
also helps passengers save money by automatically
more than 750 systems.
charging the most economical fare for their journey.
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 57
Electric Vehicles Visa has multiple initiatives related to promoting
EV charging payments, including:
The use of EVs is growing rapidly and, as charging infrastructure grows to meet demand,
the payment experience continues to be fragmented for customers. Visa is working to
create interoperable, secure and seamless EV payment experiences. Visa is working
toward simplifying payments for EV charging to help further drive the adoption of Industry Public charging
participation acceptance
zero-emission vehicles. Participating in Increasing
Electric Vehicle interoperability
mobility initiatives and open-payment
such as CharIN solutions across
In 2023, Visa continued our membership in CharIN, an international charging initiative Electric Vehicles EV chargers
& urban mobility
Utilities
working with all parts of the e-mobility value chain. Connecting Electric
Working with utility
Vehicles with the
companies for
broader urban
optimal solutions
Additionally, Visa continued our partnership with JustPark to boost EV adoption by mobility ecosystem
rewarding use and supporting expansion of the JustCharge network of community
EV charging points. This allowed charging in neighborhoods and at residences, G eno gv ae grn emm ee nn tt P aua ty hm oe rin zt
a
a tin od
n
expanding the network of available charging stations for public use. E nn atg ioag ne am l, re en gt io w ni ath l a nd H pae ylp m s eu np tp so or lt u o tip oe nn s
l ao nc da l a g uo thve or rn itm iesents Visa’s Electric a an ud th e ox rp iza an tid oi nn g m odels
In Europe, Visa worked to support the development and expansion of EV charging points Vehicle payments
in compliance with the Alternative Fuel Infrastructure Regulation, which requires all EV initiative
Innovation
and standards Fleet enhancements
charging stations to accept card and contactless payments. Visa built upon efforts in Developing new Enhancing transaction
payment solutions data to fit the business
Europe to continue partnerships with transit agencies worldwide to help launch projects, and establishing needs of hybrid and
interoperability Electric Vehicle fleets
supporting sustainable mobility through contactless ticketing and fare payment solutions. standards
We also advised EU clients through our Sustainability Advisory arm on their EV strategies
Loyalty, offers Visa Acceptance
and created market-reports, as well as using Visa’s transaction data to provide insights on and co-branding Platform
Developing Off-the-shelf
trends around EV usage and propensity. dedicated programs Customer profiles acceptance platform
Identifying how EV for Electric Vehicle
owners shop charging operators
compared to others
A circular, wheel-like infographic that represents Visa's Electric Vehicle payments initiative. Divided into 11 spokes, it reads, moving clockwise: (1)
Public charging acceptance: Increasing interoperability and open-payment solutions across EV chargers; (2) Utilities: Working with utility companies
for optimal solutions; (3) Payment and authorization: Help support open payment solutions and expanding authorization models; (4) Fleet
enhancements: Enhancing transaction data to fit the business needs f hybrid and Electric Vehicle fleets; (5) Visa Aceptance Platform: Off-the
shelf acceptance platform for Electric Vehicle charging operators; (6) Customer profiles: Identifying h w EV owners shop compared to others; (7)
Loyalty, offers and co-branding: Developing dedicated programs; (8) Innovation and standards: Developing new payment solutions and establishing
interoperability standards; (9) Government engagement: Engagement with national, regional and local governments and authorities; (10) Electric
Vehicles & urban mobility: Connecting Electric Vehicles with the broader urban mobility ecosystem; and (11) Industry participation: Participating in
Electric Vehicle mobility initiative such as CharIn.
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 58
Sustainable Travel & Tourism
We believe in using our network to help enable a
sustainable travel and tourism ecosystem that is
more transparent, inclusive, seamless and rewarding
for consumers, clients and governments.
Key programs include:
• Coalitions & Councils: Visa participates in organizations
that aim to shape the enabling and B2B environment
and accelerate the transition to more sustainable
tourism. Our engagements include Travalyst, WEF,
United Eco-Skies Alliance, Resilient Cities Network
and Clean Skies for Tomorrow. Recommerce Visa, with the support of Strategic Partner, the
Ellen MacArthur Foundation, recently launched the
• Visa “For” Programs: Visa partners with municipal
There are multiple ways for governments, businesses and Recommerce Behavioral Insight Lab, an initiative running
governments to help combat overtourism and preserve
consumers to reduce their impact on the environment. rapid, real-world experiments to understand and share
culturally significant destinations. Examples include
One area that is scaling is the circular economy, a systems how businesses can help consumers actively engage in
Visa “For” Athens and Visa “For” Venice.
solution framework that is crucial to reducing emissions the transition to a more circular economy. We are working
• Visa Consulting and Analytics (VCA) Sustainability
and achieving national and global targets. with partners to test and identify business models in
Advisory: Visa provides consultative services, primarily
experiments that focus on resale, rental, repair, refill,
focused on the consumer travel journey. Visa is taking action to foster sustainable commerce by
return and redistribution, that encourage consumers
enabling more sustainable choices for individuals and
• Research: Visa supports research designed to to participate in the circular economy—with the aim
businesses in an effort to accelerate the transition from
deepen industry knowledge and direction through of closing the intent-to-action gap when it comes to
a linear to a circular economy. A focus on circularity goes
sustainable travel research, including the Global sustainable habits. Findings from our lab will be openly
further than just carbon cutting—it creates an opportunity
Travel Intentions Study and Globescan Healthy and shared with SMBs to help them better understand
to build a thriving economy based on three principles:
Sustainable Living Study. customer preferences and unlock the economic potential
eliminate waste and pollution, circulate products and
of the circular economy.
materials and regenerate nature. These principles have
the power to tackle global challenges, including to Our work in Recommerce space ranges from helping
mitigate climate change and biodiversity loss, create jobs, establish the commercial business case and working
regenerate cities, towns and communities and with governments and business partners to help SMBs
build resilience and prosperity. get quicker access to funds to encouraging innovation
in emerging recommerce business models with
payment solutions.
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 59
Fostering More Sustainable Behaviors
Through Innovative Recycling Initiatives
TOMRA and Shift4 Rheaply
In early 2024, Visa announced a new partnership with TOMRA, a Norwegian corporation In the U.S., Visa and Rheaply launched a free-to-join reuse marketplace in the D.C. area,
specializing in collection and sorting technology that provides instant payouts for a new, open to any business or non-profit. This is the first of three marketplaces by Visa giving
innovative system for reusable takeaway packaging. unused workplace items a new life while benefiting fellow businesses and the planet.
In collaboration with Shift4, a global leader in integrated payments and commerce This program has the potential to divert millions of pounds of waste from landfills—
technology, the strategic partnership aims to empower consumers to adopt sustainable retaining and recirculating value in the local economy and displacing critical embodied
choices while enjoying financial rewards. carbon emissions in the process.
Through this alliance, Visa, TOMRA and Shift4 are hoping to foster sustainable behaviors
by changing the way individuals participate in reuse efforts. The collaboration is a step
toward a circular economy, where technology, finance and environmental consciousness
converge for a more sustainable future.
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 60
Consumer Engagement • Responded to the President’s Emergency Plan for
Adaptation and Resilience (PREPARE) Call to Action to
Visa believes that the transition to sustainable commerce the Private Sector, an initiative by the U.S. Department
and behaviors requires participation in and support of of State and U.S. Agency for International Development
consumer engagement initiatives. In 2023, Visa: (USAID) to mobilize the private sector to address
climate resilience around the world.
• Announced a new partnership designed to support
SMBs in their transition to green and sustainable • Participated in Climate Week, an annual climate-
packaging solutions. Together, Visa and our partner will focused convening hosted in conjunction with the
make $1 million accessible to qualifying restaurants in United Nations General Assembly.
New York, Los Angeles, London, Paris and Madrid to be • Continued our participation in the sustainability
used toward funding sustainable packaging solutions and environmental-focused committees of our
to help transition to a greener future. leading trade associations, including the Energy and
• Continued to serve as a Founding Partner of and Environment Coordinating Committee of the Business
contributor to Brands for Good, an initiative of Roundtable, the Sustainable Finance Working Group
Sustainable Brands focused on building a movement of the Institute for International Finance and various
among leading brands to make sustainable living more working groups of the Information Technology
attractive, rewarding and attainable. Industry Council.
• Contributed to the programs and initiatives of other
Global Policy & Industry Engagement leading coalitions, including the World Business Council
for Sustainable Development, the World Economic
At Visa, we believe in the importance of supporting public Forum and the We Mean Business Coalition.
policy dialogue and engagement as part of our approach
to sustainable commerce, decarbonization and net-zero.
In 2023, we:
• Participated in COP27 (Egypt) and COP28 (Dubai) global
climate convenings, spanning fiscal and calendar year
2023. At these summits, Visa delegates participated in
panel discussions on sustainability mobility, engaging
consumers, circular economy, climate adaptation and
disaster relief and innovations in digital payments.
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 61
Climate Tech Solutions
Technology can be a powerful tool in fostering a green Sustainability Advisory Practice Partner Solutions
transition, enabling direct links and information exchange
with consumers. Visa is building the crucial infrastructure Visa offers sustainability advisory through a combination As a global payments network, we believe we can play
to better understand consumer behaviors’ impact on the of Visa Global Sustainability Solutions and Visa Consulting an important role in helping consumers and businesses
climate based on their spending behavior and empower and Analytics. shift to more sustainable behaviors through our efforts to
shifts toward more sustainable options, ultimately embed sustainable features in payment accounts. We are
Services include partnering with clients to develop their
encouraging and rewarding more sustainable choices. working to increase awareness, engagement and action
sustainability vision and strategy, conducting current state
for consumer and commercial card portfolios, including
Visa’s expanded portfolio of sustainability-focused assessments, value proposition development and helping
merchant businesses. Specific offerings and partnership-
solutions supports broader sustainable commerce and to implement and launch products that enable consumers
powered solutions include:
spending choices. We strive to accelerate the transition and corporates to play their part in the shift to net zero.
to a low-carbon economy by enabling cardholders, For many Visa clients, a key focus is also to reduce their ecolytiq:
merchants, financial institutions and governments to financed emissions; e.g., by creating products that reduce A sustainability-as-a-service solution, typically integrated
adopt more sustainable choices. Our approach includes their own scope 3 emissions. Visa’s sustainability advisory into a mobile banking app, designed to build awareness
the following focus areas: practice was fully launched in FY23. and engagement with the customer and encourage more
sustainable choices. Ecolytiq analyzes payment data to
• Sustainability Advisory Practice: Our cross-functional
Data Products & Models form a picture of an individual’s environmental footprint
practice supporting clients to navigate their current
while encouraging the user to take action to reduce or
sustainability strategy, develop their roadmap and Visa has developed data products and models designed offset the user’s emissions and drive behavior change.
launch products that enable their customers and to support efforts to benchmark, segment and predict
corporate clients in the transition to a lower- climate positive transactions for payments and other Cloverly:
carbon economy. products. One such solution is Visa Sustainability A climate-action technology platform that streamlines
access to carbon credits worldwide. Cloverly is the
• Data Products & Models: Helping clients adopt a Index, designed to provide estimates for carbon
infrastructure for products to become climate-positive
data-driven approach to sustainability through emissions, sustainability benchmarks and perspectives
through a scalable solution that enables businesses and
internally developed solutions, effective segmentation, on sustainable cardholder segments via VisaNet data.
consumers to take direct action toward climate change.
predictive behavior capability and reward insights. Combined with external sources on carbon emissions
of various sectors and products, this tool estimates the
• Partner Solutions: Increasing sustainability
general carbon emissions intensity per purchase and
awareness, engagement and inspiring actions for
helps individuals and businesses to better understand
consumer and commercial card portfolios, including
the impact of their transactions on the environment.
merchant business.
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 62
Lune: Plan A:
A software company focused on carbon offsetting. Using Lune’s API, Visa clients A sustainability platform empowering financial institutions to scale their sustainability
can get access to Lune’s library of carbon projects. Lune offers both a platform with an end-to-end carbon management platform. The Software-as-a-Service solution
to directly purchase carbon credits as well as an API to easily embed climate automates emissions and ESG data collection and impact analysis, providing individual
action into any product. Through the API, financial institutions and merchants emissions profiles as well as granular insights in dynamic dashboard overviews.
can provide their clients and customers with access to carbon offsetting options The platform allows for science-based net-zero target-setting and decarbonisation
in the user experience. planning all to enable businesses to reduce their operational and value chain emissions.
Visa Climate Tech Services in Practice
Tarjeta Débito Amazonía Rewards Programs
& Carbon Reduction
A consumer debit card from the Banco de Bogotá that
allows consumers to donate 1 percent of the value of their We aim to use our partnerships with solutions providers
purchases to support the reforestation and restoration to encourage low-carbon consumption behaviors.
of the Amazon with local communities. The Visa branded Through the products we encourage our cardholders
debit card makes supporting the reforestation of the to use, as well as the use of rewards and loyalty programs,
Amazon seamless for consumers. we can support consumers to choose more sustainable
items such as organic food or flights with a lower
emissions footprint.
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 63
Operating Responsibly
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 64
Corporate Governance
Visa’s corporate governance practices help promote various limits for our directors serving on publicly traded Board Diversity
long-term value and strong Board and management company boards and audit committees. We limit our
accountability to our diverse set of stakeholders. Our directors to serving on four publicly traded company Visa strives to reflect the diversity of our global key
Board of Directors oversees important governance boards (including Visa) or two for executive officers of constituencies in the makeup of our Board, including
issues, including risk management, board composition publicly traded companies (including Visa). The Board clients, customers, employees, business partners and
and refreshment, executive and Board compensation, may grant exceptions to established limits on a case-by- stockholders. To support this objective, the Nominating
management succession and CR&S matters. case basis. and Corporate Governance Committee considers
women and candidates from underrepresented groups
We regularly monitor our corporate governance Our Board and each of its committees conduct an
in the pool from which the Committee considers director
policies and practices to confirm we meet or exceed annual evaluation, facilitated by an independent third
candidates. As of January 23, 2024, Visa’s overall board
the requirements of applicable laws, the New York Stock party, which includes a qualitative assessment by
diversity (gender, race and ethnicity) is 73 percent.
Exchange’s listing standards and that we are responsive each director of the performance of the Board and the
The Board is 36 percent gender diverse and 36 percent
to stockholders. Visa’s corporate governance framework, committee or committees on which the director sits.
racially/ethnically diverse.
including our Corporate Governance Guidelines, The Board also conducts an annual peer review to assess
exemplifies our commitment to these requirements. individual director performance. The Nominating and
Compensation Program
Corporate Governance Committee oversees the annual
Board Structure evaluation process in conjunction with the independent The compensation program for our named executive
Board Chair. officers (NEOs) helps us attract and retain key talent
Effective February 1, 2023, the Board of Directors
and promote performance that enhances stockholder
Our current Board committees include Audit and Risk,
appointed Ryan Mclnerney as Visa’s Chief Executive
value and drives long-term strategic outcomes for Visa,
Compensation, Finance and Nominating and Corporate
Officer (CEO), and former CEO Alfred F. Kelly, Jr. assumed
including our broader CR&S efforts.
Governance. All four Board committees are composed
the role of Executive Chair. The Board of Directors
appointed Mr. McInerney to the Board effective upon his solely of independent directors. Each committee Three primary principles guide our compensation
transition to CEO. operates pursuant to a written charter, available on the program design and administration:
Investor Relations page of our website.
In January 2024, Mr. Kelly retired as Chair of Visa’s • Pay for performance
Board of Directors and John F. Lundgren assumed the Board Education & Training • Promote alignment with stakeholders’ interests
role of independent Board Chair. The Board periodically
• Attract, motivate and retain key talent
reviews the Board’s leadership structure and its In addition to regular meetings of the Board and its
appropriateness, given the needs of the Board and committees, in 2023 we offered several optional We tie a substantial portion of our NEOs’ target annual
the company at such time. informational sessions for directors on key business compensation to the achievement of pre-established
topics. Visa encourages directors to pursue ongoing financial and non-financial objectives that support
In 2023, Visa welcomed one new independent director
educational opportunities, including programs that our business strategy, balancing short- and long-term
to the Board, Pamela Murphy.
cover CR&S topics, and provides cost reimbursement performance goals. Further, our annual incentive plan
Visa’s Corporate Governance Guidelines establish in accordance with our guidelines. incorporates CR&S metrics that are tied to the company’s
strategic objectives.
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 65
Our FY23 annual incentive scorecard included, Snapshot of 2024 Director Nominees
among other topics, goals related to cybersecurity,
Our director nominees exhibit an effective mix of diversity, experience and perspectives.
risk management, technology, M&A integration,
small and micro business digital enablement,
sustainability, employee volunteering, social impact,
inclusion and diversity and employee representation
and talent initiatives. 91% 36% 36%
independent women diverse
The same scorecard is also used to determine the annual
funding for Visa’s broad-based employee bonus plan.
Director Independence Gender Diversity Racial/Ethnic Diversity
4.9 Years 73%
Average Tenure Total Diversity
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 66
Ethics & Compliance
At Visa, we understand the importance of doing business Required trainings in FY23 included: Ethical behavior is an integral part of our culture at Visa.
the right way. It is a key part of how we make the world To reinforce this mindset, in FY23, we implemented an
• Anti-Money Laundering and Sanctions
better, together. We work to maintain the trust of our Ethics and Compliance Charter to define what the Visa
stakeholders through a culture of honesty and integrity. • Anti-Bribery ethics and compliance program does and aims to achieve.
Through the Charter, employees can access key details on
• Anti-Trust and Competition Laws
Visa’s global ethics and compliance program provides
Visa’s ethics and compliance program and team.
processes and controls to manage legal and regulatory • Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
risk, drive an ethical culture and empower the business In FY23, we hosted our third annual Ethics in Action week
• Responsible Data Use
to achieve Visa’s objectives legally and with integrity. The and expanded it to all five of Visa’s geographic regions.
• Key Controls
Chief Ethics & Compliance Officer, along with business Ethics in Action week is a full week of global activities for
leadership, is responsible for Visa’s global ethics and • Prevention of Workplace Harassment & Discrimination employees featuring panels, podcasts, interactive virtual
compliance program. games and interviews with industry leaders, as well as
The Code includes a supplemental Code of Ethics for
daily challenges to engage employees. The theme in FY23
Our commitment to ethics and compliance is captured in Certain Executives and Financial Officers, which requires
was “It All Starts with You,” and the events and activities
our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (Code), which senior officers to engage in honest and ethical conduct in
were designed to reinforce how each person at Visa is
applies to everyone working for or on behalf of Visa, performing their duties and provides guidelines for the
responsible for doing the right thing and maintaining our
including employees, contingent staff and the Board of ethical handling of conflicts of interest and reporting of
culture of integrity.
Directors. All staff are required to complete annual ethics unethical conduct.
and compliance training, which helps us sharpen our Visa’s Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer hosted the
Additionally, the Visa Supplier Code of Conduct
knowledge and skills and make our actions and decisions “Doing the Right Thing” speaker series, featuring personal
(Supplier Code) and Modern Slavery Act Transparency
reflect the Code. conversations with Visa leaders on what ethics and
Statement explain our expectations and values to
integrity means to them and how the Visa Leadership
In 2023, Visa once again achieved a 100 percent suppliers. For more, see Responsible Sourcing.
Principles play out at work and in their lives.
completion rate for all eligible Visa employees.
We maintain a confidential anonymous compliance
We also expanded our Ethical Ambassador program
We continued to use an interactive microsite with data hotline, operated by a third party, to allow anyone to share
across all five of Visa’s regions. The Ethical Ambassador
analytic capabilities, allowing employees to perform questions, concerns or comments online or by phone,
program seeks to encourage peer-to-peer collaboration
keyword searches of the Code. Visa also launched 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Additionally, our
and support on ethics topics and concerns. These
a personalized Code of Conduct training assigned “Speak Up” culture aims to empower employees to report
initiatives highlight Visa’s culture of ethical behavior and
specifically to people leaders that focused on the skills misconduct, and our Global Ethical Manager Toolkit helps
allow all team members to take part in activities promoting
they need given the important role they play in amplifying leaders engage in team discussions related to ethics.
these values.
our culture of integrity.
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 67
Engaging With Governments
Visa measures and monitors ethical behavior with Visa actively engages with governments, policymakers that are $25,000 or more and, if applicable, the portion
Regional Scorecard metrics that have direct impact and other key stakeholders at a global level to help shape of dues that were used for political expenditures.
on performance rating decisions and associated bonuses the future of digital payments. Through our partnerships,
In the U.S., Visa discloses contributions made by Visa’s
for certain business leaders. Every quarter, our Regional we find opportunities to drive digital transformation and
Political Action Committee (Visa PAC) in accordance with
Ethics and Compliance Leaders are to review the status further enable access to financial services.
the requirements of the Federal Election Commission.
of progress against agreed upon goals with the regional
Visa’s participation in industry advocacy events enables Visa’s global Political Participation, Lobbying and
president and country managers and report at year-end
our global government engagement team to showcase Contributions Policy is annually updated on Visa.com
on achievement of those goals to the Visa CEO.
the progress Visa is making to advance more secure and aims to:
We continue to strengthen our approach to embed
payment technologies and highlight ongoing innovation
ethics and compliance into enterprise-wide
• Promote ethical and transparent political engagement
in the payments ecosystem.
management processes.
by Visa.
Our approach is designed to help policymakers
• Ensure that Visa’s political spending enhances
understand the payments industry and underscores
stockholder value.
Visa’s local and global actions to accelerate the growth
In 2024, Visa was recognized • Facilitate Visa’s compliance with applicable laws and
of electronic payments and promote digital equity
reporting requirements addressing political activity.
by the Ethisphere Institute and inclusion.
• Align Visa’s government engagement activities in
as one of the World’s Most Through Visa University, we provide training and outreach
support of Visa’s corporate purpose to uplift everyone,
programs to governments and policymakers around
Ethical Companies for the 12th everywhere by being the best way to pay and be paid.
the world to allow us to foster the exchange of ideas on
consecutive year. legal and economic aspects of digital financial services.
Further, Visa engages in strategic partnerships with a
wide range of local, national, international and multilateral In 2023, Visa received a 100%
organizations, universities, think tanks and other policy
rating on the CPA–Zicklin Index
organizations to share perspectives and contribute
to policy dialogue on topics including the future of of Corporate Political Disclosure
payments, small business enablement, sustainability
and Accountability and was
and digital equity and inclusion.
recognized as a “Trendsetter”
Transparent Political Involvement
for the eighth consecutive year.
Visa remains committed to transparent political
involvement. Our annual Visa Corporate Political
Contributions Report includes a listing of all U.S. trade
associations to which Visa pays annual membership dues
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 68
Visa operates globally and seeks to comply with
applicable laws, regulations and requirements,
including those related to tax, around the world.
Tax Compliance & Governance
Relationships are at the heart of Visa’s business. We Tax oversight resides with the executive management adversely affect our reputation. Under our policies,
know that trust must be continuously earned, and we are team, including relevant oversight committees and the we make tax planning decisions throughout our global
committed to being a transparent and reliable partner Board of Directors. The Senior Vice President, Global Tax operations in a manner that is consistent with Visa’s
in business, in engagement with governments and in is responsible for the global management of tax risks and commercial business and economic activities.
the communities we serve. Visa operates globally and provides updates regarding corporate tax strategy, risks
Visa’s statement on tax compliance, governance and
seeks to comply with applicable laws, regulations and to our business and effective tax rate directly to the Chief
our effective income tax rate is available on our corporate
requirements, including those related to tax, around Financial Officer and also at least annually to the Audit and
website under Operating Responsibly.
the world. Risk Committee of the Board of Directors. The Global Tax
Leadership Team reports to the Senior Vice President,
A global team of tax professionals, in close coordination
Global Tax and is responsible for implementing tax
with business units, manages tax affairs in every Visa
strategy in every region.
region. Everyone working for, or on behalf of, Visa shares
a responsibility to follow our Code and work with integrity. At Visa, we seek to follow the letter of the law and adhere
At Visa, we do not tolerate tax evasion or the facilitation to the spirit of tax laws. Visa aims to adhere to our values,
of tax evasion. honor our commitments and avoid activities that could
22002233 CCoorrppoorraattee RReessppoonnssiibbiilliittyy && SSuussttaaiinnaabbiilliittyy RReeppoorrtt || 6699
Responsible Sourcing
Our commitment to operate responsibly and sustainably We include responsible sourcing questions regarding Visa partners with a third-party supplier to provide
extends beyond Visa operations to our suppliers and environmental, diversity, accessibility and social information on diverse supplier certifications, helping
business partners. responsibility criteria in requests for proposals, us to report more accurately with independently
information and quotations. We then evaluate these validated data.
In 2023, we refreshed our Supplier Code to provide
criteria as part of the supplier selection process. In 2023,
guidance on Visa’s expanded expectations for suppliers To further Visa’s commitment to inclusion and diversity
Visa continued to engage prospective and existing
in the areas of conflicts of interest, modern slavery, in the communities where we live and work, Visa’s Chief
suppliers to understand their current integration of various
employment and wages, supplier diversity, supplier gifts Diversity Officer sponsored an initiative to support
CR&S topics and plans to improve.
and entertainment, compliance and audit rights and Visa's diverse suppliers without certifications to obtain
environmental sustainability. The updated Supplier Code To monitor suppliers’ social and environmental certification from an established certification body. This
was reviewed and approved by Visa’s executive team, performance and alignment with our global Supplier effort not only benefits Visa’s supplier diversity goals
including Visa’s Chief Financial Officer and Global Head of Code, we continue to partner with leading supply chain- but may also help make these diverse suppliers more
Sourcing. Going forward, we aim to review the Supplier focused organizations to assess and manage sustainability marketable for engagements with other organizations.
Code on a biennial basis. practices within our supply chain.
In 2023, we continued our Supplier Diversity Program
All Visa suppliers receive the Supplier Code as part of the Visa has also expanded its engagement with our top for the U.S., which included goals to increase spend
onboarding process. We reference the Supplier Code in suppliers around climate change and other environmental with diverse Tier 1 suppliers, maintain the number of
our global governing agreements with suppliers and in our issues through membership in the CDP Supply Chain diverse suppliers within our supplier ecosystem and
Global Sourcing Policy. The Supplier Code is also publicly initiative. For more, please refer to the Protecting the incorporate diverse suppliers in Global Sourcing RFx
available on Visa’s website. Planet chapter of this report. opportunities. Our progress is reported internally to
Visa executive management on a quarterly basis,
When identifying new suppliers to work with Visa,
Supplier Diversity identifying achievements and opportunities for
we aim to partner with suppliers that meet our business
continuous improvement.
needs, align with our purpose, help drive progress toward
Expanding engagement with diverse suppliers can add
our goals and share Visa’s respect for human rights. In addition, we evolved governing agreements to include
value to our brand, provide a competitive advantage and
We align our expectations with international human rights language requesting increased diversity within account
reflect our customer base. We strive to include inclusion
standards such as the Universal Declaration of Human teams supporting Visa’s business. We also encourage our
and diversity provisions in new sourcing agreements
Rights. Suppliers' approaches to managing human rights Prime (non-diverse) suppliers to establish relationships
in North America operations and work with qualified
risks should be consistent with the United Nations Guiding with small and diverse suppliers, and request that key
suppliers who fully meet the criteria established in our
Principles on Business and Human Rights (U.N. Guiding Prime suppliers provide quarterly reporting of their Tier 2
Supplier Diversity Program.
Principles). We expect our suppliers to comply with all diverse spend.
applicable legal requirements related to human rights.
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 70
Human Rights
Visa invests in tools and memberships with diverse We seek to respect and, where possible, promote human • Employees and contractors: Risks related to Visa’s
supplier advocacy and certification organizations, rights across our company, operations and supply chain, global workforce and contractors.
including the National Minority Supplier Development including rights identified in the Universal Declaration of
• Data subjects: Risks related to rights-holders on whom
Council (NMSDC), Women’s Business Enterprise National Human Rights and the International Labour Organization
Visa or Visa’s enterprise customers hold data.
Council (WBENC), National Gay & Lesbian Chamber of Declaration on the Fundamental Principles and Rights
• End users and customers: Risks related to the use or
Commerce (NGLCC), Financial Services Roundtable for at Work. Visa’s approach to respecting human rights is
misuse of Visa’s products and services.
Supplier Diversity, Women's Business Enterprise Council informed by the U.N. Guiding Principles.
West (WBENCW), the Western Regional Minority Supplier • Communities and society: Risks related to Visa’s role
Our approach is led by the Inclusive Impact and
Development Council (WRMSDC) and Disability:IN. in operating communities and broader societal changes
Sustainability team and Head of Corporate Responsibility
with human rights relevance.
in coordination with a cross-functional working group that
oversees our overall approach, including risk identification, The assessment informs our global human rights strategy,
In 2023, Visa partnered with its mitigation and due diligence strategy. which focuses on mitigating risks emanating from Visa’s
role as a/an:
accounts payable team to create We share our progress with members of the Visa
executive team and Board of Directors on a regular basis. • Employer: We acknowledge and respect the human
flexible payment terms for small
The Board’s Nominating and Corporate Governance rights of each employee. Our Code outlines our policies
and diverse suppliers to get funds Committee is responsible for providing human rights and expectations regarding employee protections and
oversight as part of its overarching CR&S responsibility, freedoms, including privacy, expression, association
in the hands of these suppliers
as detailed in the Committee’s Charter. and maintaining a workplace safe from retaliation.
faster. These flexible payment Policies contributing to the respect of human rights of
In 2023, we launched a refresh of our human rights
our employees include Prevention of Harassment and
terms allow Visa to better saliency assessment in partnership with a leading third-
Discrimination Policy, Safety, Health and Environmental
party firm (the assessors). The assessment is a global,
support cash flow-dependent Policy, Whistleblower Policy and Non-Retaliation Policy.
corporate-wide effort to identify and review salient
See Investing in Our People for more information.
small businesses. human rights risks resulting from our operations, network,
• Purchaser: We acknowledge and respect the human
supply chain, partnerships and sponsorships, conducted
rights of workers in our supply chain. Our Supplier Code
in accordance with the U.N. Guiding Principles.
outlines our expectations for suppliers, including safe
During the 2023 assessment, the assessors examined the working conditions and respect for human rights.
salient human rights risks and impacts most relevant to: Each year, Visa publishes a Modern Slavery Act
Transparency Statement, which is approved by our
• Supply Chain Workers: Risks related to procurement
Board of Directors. Visa’s sourcing, legal and vendor
of goods (e.g., servers) and services (e.g., building
risk management teams are responsible for
services).
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 71
risk management teams are responsible for professional investigation. We address misconduct
implementing, assessing and enforcing compliance through a formal resolution process. Confirmed violations
with the Supplier Code. Our sourcing teams also receive of our Code and other company policy will result in
training on human rights. corrective action. We prohibit retaliation against anyone
who participates in an investigation or raises a concern in
• E-Payments Enabler: As financial crimes can support
good faith, and under our policy retaliation will result in
and contribute to human rights abuses such as
disciplinary action, up to and including termination
human trafficking, we are committed to preventing
of employment.
illegal activities on our network. See Transaction
Integrity for more information.
Centre for Sport & Human Rights
• Business Partner and Sponsor: We incorporate
respect for human rights into the expectations
As a sponsor of major sports bodies and events, Visa
of and engagement with our partnerships and
remains a proud founding supporter and Advisory Council
sponsorships, including issues at the intersection
member of the Centre for Sport and Human Rights (CSHR).
of sport and human rights.
Launched in 2018, CSHR announced a strategic plan
Grievance Mechanisms for the period 2021–2025. CSHR’s approach is rooted in
& Remediation Process engaging the sports ecosystem to promote international
standards, including the U.N. Guiding Principles. CSHR
We are committed to providing access to appropriate promotes a shared commitment to the Sporting Chance
remedy when we are made aware of adverse human Principles and works to raise awareness, build capacity
rights impacts linked to our operations. Visa maintains a and create lasting value in the world of sport.
Confidential Compliance Hotline, which is operated by a
third party and is accessible online or by phone, 24 hours
a day, seven days a week. The Hotline enables anyone to
raise a concern regarding actual or suspected violations
of Visa’s Code, other policies and applicable laws,
including those related to human rights. All whistleblower
complaints submitted through the Hotline are reviewed
by the Business Conduct Office.
Our goal is to ensure a safe and respectful environment
where everyone can do their best work. When we learn
of a potential violation of the Code or other Visa policy
by Visa staff, it is our policy to conduct a confidential,
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 72
Appendix
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 73
Greenhouse Gas Emissions Verification Statement
Page 2 Page 3
Criteria against which verification conducted: Statement of independence, impartiality and competence
VER GIF RIC EA ET NI HO ON U O SP EI N GI AO SN ED ME IC SL SA IOR NA ST ION  W Gro er eld n hR oe us so eu r Gc ae ss (In Gs Hti Gtu )t e P ( rW otoR cI o)/ lW Co or rld p oB rau ts ein Ae cs cs o C uo ntu inn gc il a f no dr S Ru es pt oa rin tina gb l Se tD ane dv ae rlo dp (m Sce on pt e(W 1B aC nS d D 2) ) A mp ae nx a gis e man e nin t d se ep rve in cd ee s n int cp lr uo df ie ns gs i ao sn sa ul rase nr cv eic wes ith c oo vm ep r a 3n 0y yt eh aa rt s s hp ie sc toia ryli z ine s p rin o vH ide ina glth t, h eS sa efe sty e, r vS ico ec sia . l and Environmental
To: The Stakeholders of Visa, Inc.  WRI/WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting No member of the verification team has a business relationship with Visa, its Directors or Managers beyond that
Standard (Scope 3) required of this assignment. We conducted this verification independently and to our knowledge there has been no
Reference Standard: conflict of interest.
A e r Tem hp la ee is t x e ds d eiC o tino ensm rf mo rp re ima npn aaoi tte ir i ot os e nn, d oL inb fL cy tC h luV ed( i A s e Gap d H,e wI Gx n) i c t eh.w min(a V is sti hs se ea ion ) s n g f c soa o rg ip ste e h td e ho et fpo we s orc oio lo r ekn d rd d esu e stc a s pt t c oe ra nd ibn s e b ibi den i l ld o b ite yw ep l. ooe T fwn Vh .d i ie s sn avt .e v Vrie if sir ci af ai c t isia o t rni eo o sn pp o oinf n io sth in be ld eg e fr c oe l rae r tn a hh t eio o pu n rs eae pp ag p ra l aies t s io( G nto H at nG h de) Leve l of I g AS r seO se u1 n r4 h a0 o n6 u c4 s ee-3 ag: naG dsr e s Qe ta un t ah e lo m ifu ie cs n ae t t sg io a ns se :s -- Part 3: Specification with guidance for the validation and verification of T hA d ea hp ay ee - l x tt hvo h e - ada ri nas fi dy ci m ab stup aiosl fe n einm tye te e s ian ns mt f e oa d rc mht ia av a i s ttC ii oeo e nsd x. , te e s n yo ssf tiE v ee mth si ec xs ap na e dc r ir e po n rs ocs ce et h sie n s eb c su o ,s n hi dn aue scs ts oin vt g eo r m a 2sa 0si un yrt ea a ai nn rc s eh c ig ooh mv ee brt i h nei ec n da v l i ers o xt na pmn ed re ia enr ntd a cs el, a is nm o c to hin a isg l, fs ie eta t lh dff i c ai an nl dth a ae n ni dr
fair presentation of the GHG emissions statement in accordance with the criteria. Apex’s sole responsibility was to  Limited excellent understanding of Apex’s standard methodology for the verification of greenhouse gas emissions data.
p Gp ver r Ho o riv c G fii e cd s ae es t m iei on s i nsd sue aisp o reee n dn s le d t ssoe st n a ct eto ev xl mle te er c e nif t ni s,c t ia va b et ni ao a insn ly e nzo de an t o uath n rn ee d ,t ha tr iec e mc v v iu i ne er gwa r ic f aity c nh a do e t f i e oint xh nf toe . e r nVmG te H a tr ht iG fi ao ic nne a .m it niA o is anps e ri ax eo c an i ts ss iv o rr it nee ie asp sp bo o lr eat ne p lsd epi, b vl i ela ee ln d ofd o fi nro a n e sa x st p uh lir re me a u s nitsn e ci ed dn e g vlr e el ay v rni ien fi l cg o a ops tfi iy n os ai not se .n sm uo rs n a a ntn h ced e GHG VerT a ifbh icois av v e tie oir n nif d ic Mica a eti t to o hn r os u d. s oe lod g a y m : ateriality threshold of ±5% for aggregate errors in sampled data for each of the A ttestation:
Boundaries of the reporting company GHG emissions covered by the verification: Evidence-gathering procedures included but were not limited to:
 Operational Control  Interviews with relevant personnel of Visa and their consultant;
 Worldwide  Review of documentary evidence produced by Visa;
Types of GHGs: CO2, N2O, CH4, HFCs, PFCs  Review of Visa data and information systems and methodology for collection, aggregation, analysis and Thomas U. Jones, Lead Verifier Dave Reilly, Technical Reviewer
GHG Emissions Statement: review of information used to determine GHG emissions; and Program Manager Principal Consultant
 Scope 1: 10,319 metric tons of CO2 equivalent  Audit of sample of data used by Visa to determine GHG emissions. A Tap mex p aC ,o Fm Lp anies, LLC SA ap ne tx a C Ao nm a,p Can ai le ifs o, r nL iL aC
  S Sc co opp ee 22 ( (L Mo ac rka eti to -Bn- aB sa es de ):d 3): 2 6 67 m,1 e8 t7 ri cm te ot nri sc oto f n Cs O o 2f eC qO ui2 v e aq leu niv t alent V Bae sri efi dc a ot ni o thn e O pp roin ci eo sn s: and procedures conducted, there is no evidence that the GHG emissions statement shown May 3, 2024
 Scope 3: above:
CPu ar pc ith aa l s Ge od o G do s:o 0d 1s m& e S tre icrv ti oc ne ss : o 3 f 4 C5 O,3 21 e4 q m uie vt ar li ec nto t ns of CO2 equivalent   i h Rs a en s po ont rom tt in a b gt e e Ser ni ta a l p nly r de c apo ra dr rr e e (Sc d ct i oa n p n a ed c 1cis o arn ndo dat na 2c )ef ,a awir n ir dte h p W tr he Res I e /W Wn Rt Ba I Ct /i Wo Sn B D o C Gf S t rh D ee e G nG H hH oGG u sP e erm o Gti os acs soi o Pl n C rs oo td orpa cot oa r l a Ca ten o d rA p i c on c rfo aor tu em n Vta int ai go lu n a e; n a Cdn h d a in T rt hehesis p t oev nremsr iisf bi c iola itf y toi o oun rr o laiapgbirneili ieo tymn oed nne tc o.l uaWrr aept aico ron t n, t osin eacnnltu y td ooin tthghe et rh rpeea loerpatyisn weio hon of etmhxip as r yde hes ascelvaedr aahtceiocrne e i stnos, ti tsho e p t hrpo iusv bi ddlieecc dola rt ro oa Vtthioies nar. oarngda nisiz saotiloenlys ,f obru tth we itbheonuet fait cocfe Vpitsinag i no ra accsosrudmainncge a wniyth
Fuel- and Energy-Related Activities: 6,826 metric tons of CO2 equivalent Accounting and Reporting Standard (Scope 3).
Waste Generated in Operations:1,461 metric tons of CO2 equivalent It is our opinion that Visa has established appropriate systems for the collection, aggregation and analysis of
Business Travel: 32,876 metric tons of CO2 equivalent quantitative data for determination of these GHG emissions for the stated period and boundaries.
Employee Commuting: 23,056 metric tons of CO2 equivalent
Data and information supporting the Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions statement were historical in nature.
Data and information supporting the Scope 3 GHG emissions statement were in some cases estimated rather
than historical in nature.
Period covered by GHG emissions verification:
 October 1, 2022 to September 30, 2023
1 There were no capital goods expen ditures in Fiscal Year 2023.
WATER • ENVIRONMENTAL • HEALTH & SAFETY • COMPLIANCE & ASSURANCE • INFRASTRUCTURE
Apex Companies, LLC • (800) 733-2739 • www.apexcos.com
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 74
Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Index
Visa publicly discloses climate-related information in alignment with the TCFD recommendations through our annual Form 10-K,
Visa CR&S Report, CDP Climate Change response and other corporate disclosures.
TCFD Core Element TCFD Disclosure Requirement (Short) TCFD Disclosure Requirement (Complete) Location
(a) D escribe the board’s oversight of climate-related risks 2024 Proxy Statement, page 20
Degree of board oversight
and opportunities. 2023 Climate Change CDP C1.1a, C1.1b
Governance
(b) D escribe management’s role in assessing and managing climate-
Management's role 2023 Climate Change CDP C1.2a
related risks and opportunities.
(a) Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities the organization 2023 Annual Report, page 28-30
Climate-related risks and opportunities
has identified over the short, medium and long term. 2023 Climate Change CDP C2.1a, C2.2a, C2.3b, C2.4b
(b) Describe the impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on the
Impacts of risks and opportunities 2023 Climate Change CDP C3.1, C3.3, C3.4
Strategy organization’s businesses, strategy and financial planning.
(c) Describe the resilience of the organization’s strategy, taking into
Resilience of the organization's strategy consideration different climate-related scenarios, including a 2023 Climate Change CDP C3.2a, C3.2b
2°C or lower scenario.
(a) Describe the organization’s processes for identifying and assessing
Climate risk identification process 2023 Climate Change CDP C2.1a, C2.2, C2.2a
climate-related risks.
(b) Describe the organization’s processes for managing
Climate risk management process 2023 Climate Change CDP C2.2
Risk Management climate-related risks.
(c) Describe how processes for identifying, assessing and managing
Integration with other
climate-related risks are integrated into the organization’s overall 2023 Climate Change CDP C2.2
risk management processes
risk management.
2023 Climate Change CDP C4.3b, C6.1, C6.3, C6.5, C8.2h
(a) Disclose the metrics used by the organization to assess climate-
Identify risk assessment metrics related risks and opportunities in line with its strategy and risk Performance Data Table, page 87
management process.
2023 Green Bond Report, page 4-5 and page 8
Sustainable Operations, page 50
(b) Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2 and, if appropriate, Scope 3 greenhouse
Identify GHG emissions Performance Data Table, page 87
gas (GHG) emissions and the related risks.
2023 Climate Change CDP C6.1, C6.3, C6.5
Metrics & Targets
2023 Annual Report, page 7-11
2024 Proxy Statement, page 20 and page 60
Protecting the Planet, page 48 and Sustainable
Identify targets and risk metrics (c) Describe the targets used by the organization to manage climate- Operations, page 50
related risks and opportunities and performance against targets.
2023 Green Bond Report, page 2
SBTi 'Companies Taking Action' website
2023 Climate Change CDP C4.1a, C4.2c
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 75
Global Reporting Initative (GRI) Index
Statement of use: Visa has reported in accordance with the GRI Standards for the period October 1, 2022 through September 30, 2023.
GRI 1 used: GRI 1: Foundation 2021.
The following may be partially disclosed and omissions are explained, where applicable.
General Disclosures
GRI Standard / GRI Requirements Reason for
Disclosure Location or Direct Response Explanation
Other Source Code Omitted Omission
The Organization and its Reporting Practices
Corporate Profile, page 9; 2023 Annual Report, page 35
2-1 Organizational details Visa (NYSE: V) is a publicly held corporation organized and existing
under the laws of the State of Delaware, headquartered in San
Francisco, CA.
Entities included in 2023 Annual Report: Table of Contents, page 2
2-2 the organization’s Unless the context indicates otherwise, reference to “Visa,” “we,” “us,”
sustainability reporting “our” or “the Company” refers to Visa and its subsidiaries.
The reporting period for Visa's annual CR&S and financial reporting is
October 1, 2022 – September 30, 2023.
Reporting period, frequency
2-3 Visa's 2022 ESG Report was published in April, 2023.
and contact point
GRI 2: General Please direct questions on this report or topics related to our
Disclosures 2021 corporate responsibility disclosures to sustainability@visa.com.
Environmental data have been restated where applicable due to new
2-4 Restatements of information
data management practices to improve consistency.
We assure report content through an internal review process,
including CEO and senior executive oversight of subject matter
reviews and validation.
We also work with a third party to assure the following data: Scope 1,
2-5 External assurance Scope 2 and select Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions. Please see the
2023 GHG Emissions Verification Statement, page 74 for a description
of assurance standards used, level of assurance obtained and any
limitations of the assurance process, as well as a description of the
relationship between Visa and the assurance provider.
Activities and Workers
2023 Annual Report: Business, pages 4-18
Activities, value chain and other
2-6 business relationships Visa is active in the Software IT Services sector as defined by the
Global Industry Classification Standard (GICS).
Performance Data Table, page 87; 2024 Proxy Statement, page 9
GRI 2: General 2-7 Employees Visa USA annually publishes an Employer Information Report (EEO-1
Disclosures 2021 Report). The most recently available certified EEO-1, for CY22, was
posted on December 19, 2023.
Visa does not disclose
Information
Workers who are Visa does not report information related to workers who are not information related to
2-8 unavailable/
not employees employees. workers who are not
incomplete
employees.
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 76
General Disclosures
GRI Standard / GRI Requirements Reason for
Disclosure Location or Direct Response Explanation
Other Source Code Omitted Omission
Governance
Corporate Governance, page 65; 2024 Proxy Statement: Corporate
Governance structure
2-9 Governance, pages 10-18 and Committees of the Board of Directors,
and composition
pages 23-29
Nomination and selection of the 2024 Proxy Statement: Process for Nomination of Director
2-10
highest governance body Candidates, page 30
Chair of the highest
2-11 Board Structure, page 65
governance body
Role of the highest governance Our Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Approach, page 10;
2-12 body in overseeing the 2024 Proxy Statement: The Board of Directors’ Role in Risk Oversight,
management of impacts page 15
Delegation of responsibility
2-13 Our Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Approach, page 10
for managing impacts
Role of the highest governance
2-14 2024 Proxy Statement: Integrated Approach, page 20
body in sustainability reporting
2-15 Conflicts of interest Visa Corporate Governance Guidelines
GRI 2: General
Disclosures 2021
Communication of critical Visa Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, pages 11-13 and 2024 Proxy
2-16
concerns Statement: Communicating with the Board of Directors, page 18
Collective knowledge of the 2024 Proxy Statement: Summary of Director Qualifications and
2-17
highest governance body Background and Director Nominee Biographies, pages 37-43
"Evaluation of the
2024 Proxy Statement: Board of Director and Committee
2-18 performance of the highest
Evaluations, page 12
governance body"
2024 Proxy Statement: Compensation of Non-Employee Directors,
2-19 Remuneration policies
pages 32-35 and Executive Compensation, pages 73-88
Process to determine 2024 Proxy Statement: Compensation Discussion and Analysis,
2-20
remuneration pages 50-72
2024 Proxy Statement: CEO Pay Ratio, page 93
For our last completed fiscal year ended September 30, 2023, the
2-21 Annual total compensation ratio ratio of the annual total compensation of our CEO to the median of
the annual total compensation of our employees, excluding our CEO,
is 151:1.
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 77
General Disclosures
GRI Standard / GRI Requirements Reason for
Disclosure Location or Direct Response Explanation
Other Source Code Omitted Omission
Strategy, Policies and Practices
Statement on sustainable
2-22 Letter From Ryan McInerney, page 2
development strategy
Visa Modern Slavery Transparency Statement, Visa Code of Business
2-23 Policy commitments
Conduct and Ethics and Visa Supplier Code of Conduct
Embedding policy
2-24 Operating Responsibly, page 64; Human Rights, page 71
commitments
Processes to remediate Visa Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, pages 11-13 and 2024 Proxy
GRI 2: General 2-25 negative impacts Statement: Communicating with the Board of Directors, page 18
Disclosures 2021
Ethics & Compliance, page 67
Mechanisms for seeking advice Visa’s Confidential Compliance Hotline, operated by a third party,
2-26
and raising concerns is available in multiple languages and online or by phone, 24 hours
a day, seven days a week.
Compliance with laws
2-27 2023 Annual Report: Note 20—Legal Matters, pages 99-106
and regulations
2-28 Membership associations Relevant Memberships, page 12
Stakeholder Engagement
Approach to stakeholder
2-29 Stakeholder Engagement, page 11; Our Company, page 8
engagement
In geographic locations
where required by law,
GRI 2: General Visa employees are covered
Disclosures 2021 Information by collective bargaining
Collective bargaining Visa does not report the percentage total of employees covered
2-30 unavailable/ agreements. Visa does
agreements by collective bargaining agreements.
incomplete not report the percentage
total of employees covered
by collective bargaining
agreements.
Material Topics
Process to determine
3-1 Our Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Approach, page 10
material topics
GRI 3: Material
Topics 2021
3-2 List of material topics 2024 Proxy Statement, page 21
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 78
Topic-Specific Disclosures
GRI Standard / GRI Requirements Reason for
Disclosure Location or Direct Response Explanation
Other Source Code Omitted Omission
Employee Wellbeing, Employee Safety & Security
GRI 3: Material
3-3 Management of material topics Employee Safety & Security, page 47
Topics 2021
403-3 Occupational health services Employee Safety & Security, page 47
Worker training on occupational
403-5 Employee Safety & Security, page 47
health and safety
GRI 403:
Occupational Health 403-6 Promotion of worker health Employee Safety & Security, page 47
and Safety 2018 Prevention and mitigation of
occupational health and safety
403-7 Employee Safety & Security, page 47
impacts directly linked by
business relationships
Employee Engagement
GRI 3: Material Management Employee Talent, Growth & Learning, page 36;
3-3
Topics 2021 of material topics Employee Engagement, page 43
Percentage of
GRI 404: Training employees receiving regular
404-3 Employee Talent, Growth & Learning, page 36
and Education 2016 performance and career
development reviews
Inclusion & Diversity
GRI 3: Material
3-3 Management of material topics Inclusion & Diversity, page 39
Topics 2021
Inclusion & Diversity, page 39; Snapshot of Directors, page 66
Diversity of governance bodies
405-1 Visa USA annually publishes an Employer Information Report
and employees
GRI 405: Diversity (EEO-1 Report).
and Equal Compensation Philosophy, page 46
Opportunity 2016 Ratio of basic salary and At Visa, men and women earn the same pay for the same work
405-2
remuneration of women to men globally, and the same is true for historically underrepresented
employees and their white peers in the U.S.
Employee Talent, Growth & Learning
GRI 3: Material
3-3 Management of material topics Employee Talent, Growth & Learning, page 36
Topics 2021
Performance Data Table, page 87
Average hours of training per
404-1 In 2023 on average, Visa employees participated in 16 hours
year per employee
GRI 404: Training of training.
and Education 2016 Programs for upgrading
404-2 employee skills and transition Employee Talent, Growth & Learning, page 36
assistance programs
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 79
Topic-Specific Disclosures
GRI Standard / GRI Requirements Reason for
Disclosure Location or Direct Response Explanation
Other Source Code Omitted Omission
Visa Total Rewards
GRI 3: Material
3-3 Management of material topics Visa Total Rewards, page 45
Topics 2021
Benefits provided to full-
GRI 401: time employees that are not
401-2 Visa Total Rewards, page 45
Employment 2016 provided to temporary or part-
time employees
Empowering Small & Micro Businesses, Empowering People
GRI 3: Material Empowering Small & Micro Businesses, page 14;
3-3 Management of material topics
Topics 2021 Empowering People, page 18
GRI 203: Indirect
Significant indirect Empowering Small & Micro Businesses, page 14;
Economic Impacts 203-2
economic impacts Empowering People, page 18; Sustainable Movement, page 56
2016
Empowering Communities
GRI 3: Material
3-3 Management of material topics Empowering Communities, page 21
Topics 2021
Operations with local
GRI 413: Local community engagement,
413-1 Empowering Communities, page 21
Communities 2016 impact assessments, and
development programs
Payments Security, Transaction Integrity
GRI 3: Material
3-3 Management of material topics Payments Security, page 25; Transaction Integrity, page 34
Topics 2021
Company specific Number of enumeration
- In 2023, Visa blocked 121 million enumeration attacks.
metric attacked blocked
Cybersecurity
GRI 3: Material
3-3 Management of material topics Cybersecurity, page 27
Topics 2021
Percentage of Cybersecurity, page 27
Company specific
- employees who completed In 2023, 100% of eligible employees completed mandatory
metric
Key Controls training Key Controls training.
Data Privacy, Responsible Data Use
GRI 3: Material
3-3 Management of material topics Data Privacy, page 30; Responsible Data Use, page 29
Topics 2021
Substantiated complaints A material breach of Visa’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
GRI 418: Customer concerning breaches of would be disclosed in accordance with SEC rules. Visa does not
418-1
Privacy 2016 customer privacy and losses disclose non-material breaches of our Code of Business Conduct
of customer data and Ethics.
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 80
Topic-Specific Disclosures
GRI Standard / GRI Requirements Reason for
Disclosure Location or Direct Response Explanation
Other Source Code Omitted Omission
Sustainable Operations
GRI 3: Material
3-3 Management of material topics Protecting the Planet, page 48
Topics 2021
Energy & Greenhouse Gas Emissions, page 53
Energy consumption Visa annually responds to the CDP Climate Change
302-1
within the organization questionnaire. See Visa's CDP responses for additional energy
and emissions information.
GRI 302: Energy 2016
Energy consumption outside of Energy & Greenhouse Gas Emissions, page 53;
302-2
the organization Performance Data Table, page 87
Reduction of energy
302-4 Energy & Greenhouse Gas Emissions, page 53
consumption
GRI 303: Water and
303-3 Water withdrawal Water, page 55; Performance Data Table, page 87
Effluents 2018
Energy & Greenhouse Gas Emissions, page 53;
Performance Data Table, page 87
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Visa annually responds to the CDP Climate Change
questionnaire. See Visa's CDP responses for additional energy
and emissions information.
Energy & Greenhouse Gas Emissions, page 53;
Performance Data Table, page 87
Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG
305-2 Visa annually responds to the CDP Climate Change
emissions
questionnaire. See Visa's CDP responses for additional energy
and emissions information.
Energy & Greenhouse Gas Emissions, page 53;
GRI 305: Emissions Performance Data Table, page 87
Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG
2016 305-3 Visa annually responds to the CDP Climate Change
emissions
questionnaire. See Visa'sCDP responses for additional energy
and emissions information.
Energy & Greenhouse Gas Emissions, page 53;
Performance Data Table, page 87
305-4 GHG emissions intensity Visa annually responds to the CDP Climate Change
questionnaire. See Visa's CDP responses for additional energy
and emissions information.
Energy & Greenhouse Gas Emissions, page 53
Visa annually responds to the CDP Climate Change
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions
questionnaire. See Visa's CDP responses for additional energy
and emissions information.
GRI 306: Waste 2020 306-3 Waste generated Waste, page 55; Performance Data Table, page 87
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 81
Topic-Specific Disclosures
GRI Standard / GRI Requirements Reason for
Disclosure Location or Direct Response Explanation
Other Source Code Omitted Omission
Sustainable Solutions, Sustainable Movement
GRI 3: Material
3-3 Management of material topics Sustainable Movement, page 56
Topics 2021
GRI 203: Indirect
Significant indirect Empowering Small & Micro Businesses, page 14;
Economic Impacts 203-2
economic impacts Sustainable Movement, page 56
2016
Corporate Governance
GRI 3: Material
3-3 Management of material topics Corporate Governance, page 65
Topics 2021
GRI 405: Diversity
Diversity of governance bodies Inclusion & Diversity, page 39; Snapshot of 2024 Director Nominees,
and Equal 405-1
and employees page 66
Opportunity 2016
Ethics & Compliance
GRI 3: Material
3-3 Management of material topics Ethics & Compliance, page 67
Topics 2021
Operations assessed for risks
205-1 Ethics & Compliance, page 67
related to corruption
GRI 205: Anti-
Communication and training
Corruption 2016
205-2 about anti-corruption policies Ethics & Compliance, page 67
and procedures
GRI 206: Anti- Legal actions for anti-
2023 Annual Report: Legal and Regulatory Matters, pages 48-49,
Competitive 206-1 competitive behavior, anti-trust
and Note 20—Legal Matters, pages 99-106
Behavior 2016 and monopoly practices
Engaging with Governments, Tax Compliance & Governance
GRI 3: Material Engaging with Governments, page 68;
3-3 Management of material topics
Topics 2021 Tax Compliance & Governance, page 69
Tax Compliance & Governance, page 69;
GRI 207: Tax 2019 207-1 Approach to tax
2023 Annual Report, pages 39-41, page 45 and page 49
Responsible Sourcing
GRI 3: Material
3-3 Management of material topics Responsible Sourcing, page 70
Topics 2021
All Visa suppliers receive
the Supplier Code as
GRI 308: Supplier New suppliers that part of the onboarding
Visa does not report the number of new suppliers screened using
Environmental 308-1 were screened using process. Visa does not
environmental criteria.
Assessment 2016 environmental criteria report the number of new
suppliers screened using
environmental criteria.
Other Disclosures
Corporate Profile, page 9; 2023 Annual Report: Year-End Financial
GRI 201: Economic Direct economic value
201-1 Highlights, page 2 and Management's Discussion of Financial
Performance 2016 generated and distributed
Condition, page 37
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 82
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Content Index
Visa discloses elements of metrics from the SASB Software and IT Services industry standard, version 2023-12.
Code Metric Location or Direction Response
Environmental Footprint of Hardware Infrastructure
Energy & Greenhouse Gas Emissions, page 53; Performance Data Table, page 87
(1) Total energy consumed, (2) percentage grid electricity and
TC-SI-130a.1 Visa annually responds to the CDP Climate Change questionnaire.
(3) percentage renewable
See Visa's CDP responses for additional energy and emissions information.
Water, page 55; Performance Data Table, page 87
Water withdrawal data is collected directly from facilities that Visa operates
(owned or leased) as part of the annual environmental inventory process.
(1) Total water withdrawn, (2) total water consumed; percentage
TC-SI-130a.2 Visa then determines areas of high or extremely high water stress using WRI’s
of each in regions with High or Extremely High Baseline Water Stress
Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas. 42% of Visa's water use occurs in an area of high or
extremely high baseline water stress. This metric does not include the reclaimed
water that is used at Visa’s data center in the Eastern U.S.
Discussion of the integration of environmental considerations into
TC-SI-130a.3 Greening Our Offices & Data Centers, page 50
strategic planning for data centre needs
Data Privacy & Freedom of Expression
Description of policies and practices relating to targeted advertising
TC-SI-220a.1 Responsible Data Use, page 29
and user privacy
TC-SI-220a.2 Number of users whose information is used for secondary purposes
Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings
TC-SI-220a.3 Visa discloses all material legal proceedings in our SEC filings.
associated with user privacy
(1) Number of law enforcement requests for user information,
TC-SI-220a.4 (2) number of users whose information was requested and
(3) percentage resulting in disclosure
List of countries where core products or services are subject
TC-SI-220a.5 to government-required monitoring, blocking, content filtering
or censoring
Data Security
(1) Number of data breaches, (2) percentage that are personal data
TC-SI-230a.1
breaches and (3) number of users affected
Description of approach to identifying and addressing data security
TC-SI-230a.2 Cybersecurity, page 27
risks, including use of third-party cybersecurity standards
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 83
Code Metric Location or Direction Response
Recruiting & Managing a Global, Diverse & Skilled Workforce
TC-SI-330a.1 Percentage of employees that require a work visa
TC-SI-330a.2 Employee engagement as a percentage Employee Engagement, page 43
Performance Data Table, page 87; 2024 Proxy Statement, page 9
Percentage of (1) gender and (2) diversity group representation for
Visa USA annually publishes an Employer Information Report (EEO-1 Report).
TC-SI-330a.3 (a) executive management, (b) non-executive management, (c)
The most recently available certified EEO-1, for CY22, was posted on December
technical employees and (d) all other employees
19, 2023.
Intellectual Property Protection & Competitive Behaviour
Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings 2023 Annual Report: Legal and Regulatory Matters, pages 48-49, and Note 20—
TC-SI-520a.1
associated with anti-competitive behaviour regulations Legal Matters, pages 99-106
Managing Systemic Risks from Technology Disruptions
Number of (1) performance issues and (2) service disruptions;
TC-SI-550a.1
(3) total customer downtime
Description of business continuity risks related to disruptions
TC-SI-550a.2 2023 Annual Report: Risk Factors, pages 18-34
of operations
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 84
World Economic Forum (WEF) Content Index
Visa discloses elements of Core metrics from the WEF Stakeholder Capitalism Metrics.
Theme Core Metric Location or Direct Response
Principles of Governance
Governing Purpose Setting purpose Letter From Ryan McInerney, page 2
Corporate Governance, page 65; 2024 Proxy Statement: Snapshot of 2024
Director Nominees, page 3, Corporate Governance, pages 10-18, Committees of
the Board of Directors, pages 23-29 and Director Nominee Biographies, pages
38-43; Corporate Governance Guidelines pages 1 and 8-9
Quality of governing body Governance body composition As of 2023, there are no employee stakeholder representatives on Visa’s
Board of Directors. However, the full Board has oversight of human capital
management and performs regular reviews. See 2024 Proxy Statement, pages
6-7, for additional information on Board committee responsibilities for specific
areas of human capital management.
Our Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Approach, page 10; 2024 Proxy
Stakeholder engagement Material issues impacting stakeholders
Statement , page 21
Anti-corruption Ethics & Compliance, page 67
Ethics & Compliance, page 67
Ethical behaviour
Protected ethics advice and reporting mechanisms Visa’s Confidential Compliance Hotline, operated by a third party, is available in
multiple languages and online or by phone, 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
Risk and opportunity oversight Integrating risk and opportunity into business process 2023 Annual Report: Risk Factors, pages 18-34
Planet
Energy & Greenhouse Gas Emissions, page 53; Performance Data Table, page 87
Climate change Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Visa annually responds to the CDP Climate Change questionnaire. See Visa’s
CDP responses for additional energy and emissions information.
TCFD implementation TCFD Index, page 75
Water, page 55; Performance Data Table, page 87
Water withdrawal data is collected directly from facilities that Visa operates
(owned or leased) as part of the annual environmental inventory process.
Freshwater availability Water consumption and withdrawal in water-stressed areas Visa then determines areas of high or extremely high water stress using WRI’s
Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas. 42% of Visa's water use occurs in an area of high or
extremely high baseline water stress. This metric does not include the reclaimed
water that is used at Visa’s data center in the Eastern U.S.
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 85
Theme Core Metric Location or Direct Response
People
Performance Data Table, page 87; 2024 Proxy Statement, page 9
Diversity and inclusion (%) Visa USA annually publishes an Employer Information Report (EEO-1 Report).
The most recently available certified EEO-1, for CY22, was posted on December
19, 2023.
Dignity and equality Pay equality (%) Compensation Philosophy, page 46; Performance Data Table, page 87
2024 Proxy Statement: CEO Pay Ratio, page 93
For our last completed fiscal year ended September 30, 2023, the ratio of
Wage level (%)
the annual total compensation of our CEO to the median of the annual total
compensation of our employees, excluding our CEO, is 151:1.
Health and well-being Health and safety (%) This metric is not material to the banking industry.
Performance Data Table, page 87
Skills for the future Training provided (#, $)
On average, Visa employees participated in 16 hours of training in 2023.
Prosperity
Absolute number and rate of employment Performance Data Table, page 87
Corporate Profile, page 9; 2023 Annual Report: Year-End Financial Highlights,
Economic contribution
Employment and wealth generation page 2 and Management’s Discussion of Financial Condition, pages 37-49
2023 Annual Report: Fiscal Year 2023 Key Statistics, page 5 and Liquidity and
Financial investment contribution
Capital Resources, page 45
Innovation of better products
Total R&D expenses ($) Visa does not report total costs related to research and development.
and services
Visa reports on its effective global tax rate annually: Tax Compliance &
Governance, page 69; 2023 Annual Report, pages 38-40, page 45, pages 49-50.
See Visa’s Operating Responsibility webpage for additional information on tax
Community and social vitality Total tax paid governance.
We do not currently disclose total global tax as prescribed by WEF. As
governments finalize rules regarding corporate tax disclosure globally,
we will comply with those requirements.
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 86
Performance Data Table
Workforce Demographics1
Description Unit FY 2020 FY 2021 FY 2022 FY2023
Total number of employees (approx.) Number 20,500 21,500 26,500 28,800
Workforce Diversity
Gender in Global workforce
Female % 41 42 42 42
Male % 59 58 58 58
Gender in U.S. Workforce
Female % 41 42 44 44
Male % 59 58 56 56
Ethnicities in U.S. Workforce2
Asian % 42 41 41 42
Black or African American % 6 7 8 8
Hispanic or Latino % 11 12 12 13
White % 38 37 36 34
Others3 % 3 3 3 3
Gender in Global Leadership4
Female % 34 35 36 37
Male % 66 65 64 63
Gender in U.S. Leadership4
Female % 34 35 36 37
Male % 66 65 64 63
Ethnicities in U.S. Leadership2,4
Asian % 19 20 18 18
Black or African American % 4 6 7 6
Hispanic or Latino % 12 12 13 13
White % 63 59 60 60
Others3 % 2 2 2 3
Median Pay5
Women compared to Men % - - - 94
Employees of Color compared to White employees % - - - 93
1. Throughout Workforce Demographics, unless otherwise noted, employee totals include full- and part-time employees, exclude interns and those on a severance notice period or long-term disability leave
and are as of September 30 of the relevant fiscal year. Ratios may not add up to 100% due to rounding.
2. Ethnicity data does not include employees who choose not to disclose or leave the field blank.
3. Others defined as American Indian/Alaska Native, Native Hawaiian/Other Pacific Islander and two or more races.
4. Leadership defined as Vice President and above.
5. Unadjusted median pay is a measure of representation by level, and includes 100% of Visa employees, including those in non-fully integrated subsidiaries.
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 87
Workforce Demographics1
Description Unit FY 2020 FY 2021 FY 2022 FY2023
Retention
Voluntary Attrition in Global Workforce6
Female % - - 38 43
Male % - - 62 57
Voluntary Attrition in U.S. Workforce2,7
Asian % - - 47 38
Black or African American % - - 8 11
Hispanic or Latino % - - 11 10
White % - - 31 36
Others3 % - - 3 4
Recruiting (Interview Candidates)8
Global Recruiting9
Female % - - 38 44
Male % - - 62 56
U.S. Recruiting10
Asian % - - 55 44
Black or African American % - - 10 12
Hispanic or Latino % - - 10 13
White % - - 21 27
Others3 % - - 3 4
External Hiring
Global External Hiring11
Female % - - 42 44
Male % - - 58 56
U.S. External Hiring12
Asian % - - 44 45
Black or African American % - - 12 9
Hispanic or Latino % - - 13 13
White % - - 28 29
Others3 % - - 3 4
6. Ratio of voluntary leavers by gender.
7. Ratio of U.S.-based voluntary leavers by ethnicity, self-identified population.
8. A significant portion of interview candidates do not disclose their gender or, in the U.S., ethnicity. This data includes only those who have self-disclosed.
9. Ratio of external interview candidates by gender, self-identified population.
10. Ratio of U.S.-based external interview candidates by ethnicity, self-identified population.
11. Ratio of external hires by gender, excluding employees who joined Visa as part of an acquisition, self-identified population.
12. Ratio of U.S.-based external hires by ethnicity, excluding employees who joined Visa as part of an acquisition, self-identified population.
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 88
Workforce Demographics1
Description Unit FY 2020 FY 2021 FY 2022 FY2023
Internal Mobility13
Global Internal Mobility14 - -
Female % - - 44 45
Male % - - 56 55
U.S. Internal Mobility15
Asian % - - 43 44
Black or African American % - - 6 7
Hispanic or Latino % - - 13 14
White % - - 34 32
Others3 % - - 4 3
Other Social Metrics
Employee Training
Average hours of training per employee Hours/employee 13 12 17 16
Employees engaged in optional learning activities % 96 86 89 96
Environmental Metrics
Energy consumption
Total energy consumption GJ 704,000 646,000 747,000 841,000
Total energy consumption from grid electricity GJ 623,000 591,000 643,000 687,000
Percent total energy consumed from grid electricity % 88 91 86 82
Total energy consumed from renewable sources GJ 546,000 591,000 643,000 687,000
Energy intensity (Energy per FTE) GJ/FTE 34 30 28 29
Global average power usage effectiveness (PUE) 1.56 1.52 1.48 1.45
Percentage of owned or leased square
% 70 75 78 80
footage that is green building certified16
13. Includes lateral movement (position changes with no job level changes) and promotions ( job level elevations).
14. Ratio of internal mobility by gender, self-identified population.
15. Ratio of U.S.-based internal mobility by ethnicity, self-identified population.
16. Visa’s percentage of owned or leased square footage that is green building certified, includes locations that are either certified or pending certification such as LEED, BREEAM, GreenMark and various regional green building certification frameworks.
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 89
Environmental Metrics
Description Unit FY 2020 FY 2021 FY 2022 FY2023
Greenhouse Gas Emissions
Total scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions17,18 MTCO2e 13,900 4,000 6,400 10,600
Total scope 1 GHG emissions MTCO2e 5,100 4,000 6,400 10,300
Total scope 2 GHG emissions—location-based emissions MTCO2e 66,400 59,200 60,900 67,200
Total scope 2 GHG emissions—market-based emissions18 MTCO2e 8,800 0 0 300
Percentage difference in scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions in comparison
% - -71 -54 -24
to FY20 baseline17,18
Emissions intensity (scope 1 and 2 per FTE)17,18 MTCO2e /FTE 0.7 0.2 0.2 0.4
Total scope 3 GHG emissions MTCO2e 409,200 321,000 403,900 409,500
Scope 3 purchased goods and services MTCO2e 369,900 302,200 369,200 345,300
Scope 3 business travel MTCO2e 18,600 1,300 12,800 32,900
Scope 3 employee commuting MTCO2e 16,600 12,800 14,900 23,100
Other categories MTCO2e 4,100 4,700 7,000 8,300
Carbon offsets MTCO2e -46,100 -19,154 -34,456 -66,300
Water Withdrawal
Total water withdrawal ML 311 271 301 365
Potable water withdrawal ML 217 147 177 234
Reclaimed water withdrawal ML 94 124 124 131
Total water withdrawal in regions with High or Extremely High Baseline
ML 71 65 72 98
Water Stress19
Total water withdrawal in regions with High or Extremely High Baseline
% 33 44 41 42
Water Stress19
Waste Management
Waste generated20 MT 3,550 1,140 2,500 3,900
Landfill diversion rate21 % 51 43 48 47
Waste recycled/reused MT 1,040 230 490 680
Waste composted22 MT 760 260 720 1,200
Waste incinerated MT 130 50 80 180
Waste sent to landfill MT 1,620 600 1,220 1,900
17. All combined scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions metrics are representative of scope 1 and 2 market-based emissions.
18. Visa’s growth in scope 2 emissions can be attributed to an improved accounting for RECS, which led to an increase in market-based scope 2 emissions. Visa has adjusted the scope 2 accounting procedure so that RECs are only applied to energy purchases in the same market as the
RECs are generated. There are locations around the world where RECs are not available or where Visa will not purchase at this time. The Visa team has identified the locations of these energy purchases that cannot be offset with local RECs and applied the emission factor for the
relevant domestic energy grid. In-market RECs for these locations will be procured if and when they become available. In FY23, Visa purchased RECs, in accordance with RE100, equal to 99% of our total electricity footprint in order to mitigate against our total scope 2 emissions.
19. Disclosed values do not include Visa’s reclaimed water usage. High or Extremely High Baseline Water Stress is determined using World Resources Institute Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas.
20. Visa has active e-waste recycling programs at its large facilities and data centers. Hazardous waste has not been determined to be a material issue for Visa.
21. Consistent with the ZWIA definition, the landfill diversion rate does not include waste that is incinerated.
22. Composted waste includes waste that was reported as being sent to compost as well as anaerobic digestion.
2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 90
Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability
©2024 Visa. All rights reserved.
