2022
Environmental, Social & Governance Report
Table of Contents
Letter From Our Chief Executive Officer 1 ENABLING TRUSTED COMMERCE PROTECTING THE PLANET
& PROTECTING CUSTOMERS
FY22 Visa ESG Performance Highlights 2 Sustainable Operations 44
Payments Security 23
Visa ESG Goals and FY22 Progress 3 Sustainable Movement 49
Cybersecurity 24
About This Report 4 Sustainable Solutions 52
Responsible Data Use 26
OUR COMPANY Data Privacy 27 OPERATING RESPONSIBLY
Corporate Profile 7 Transaction Integrity 29 Corporate Governance 55
Our Environmental, Social Ethics & Compliance 57
& Governance Approach 8 INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE
Engaging with Governments 58
Relevant Memberships 9 Inclusion & Diversity 31
Tax Compliance & Governance 59
Select Corporate Recognition 9 Employee Talent, Growth & Learning 36
Responsible Sourcing 59
Employee Engagement 38
EMPOWERING PEOPLE, Human Rights 61
COMMUNITIES & ECONOMIES Visa Total Rewards 39
Empowering Small Employee Wellbeing 40 APPENDIX
& Micro Businesses (SMBs) 11
Employee Safety & Security 40 Greenhouse Gas Emissions
Verification Statement 63
Empowering People 14
Select Corporate Recognition 41
Task Force on Climate-Related
Empowering Communities 18
Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Index 64
ESG Framework Map 65
ESG Data Table 76
a marginal increase in digital payments usage can increase attending 74 different universities. The first cohort of scholars will
national GDP, particularly in countries earlier in the adoption begin their internships in Visa offices across the United States
curve. To help make this happen, we are prioritizing our efforts in summer 2023.
to digitally enable small businesses. By the end of our 2022 fiscal
Both internally and through our engagement with clients and
year, Visa helped digitally enable more than 40 million small
partners, we remain committed to advancing sustainability.
and micro businesses (SMBs) around the world, putting us well
Building on our achievement of reaching 100 percent renewable
on track to hit our goal of digitally enabling 50 million SMBs
electricity use and carbon neutral operations, we continue to
by the end of 2023. Through its Equitable Access Initiative,
make strides toward our goal of being a net zero company by
Visa Foundation committed $15.5 million in grants and over
2040. Payments play a central role in making the modern global
$35 million in impact investments to support gender diversity
economy run. As such, we believe Visa can help others lower CO
Letter From Our and inclusion in small businesses in 2022, and continued 2
emissions and enable a shift toward more sustainable consumer
a five-year, $20 million partnership with Women’s World Banking
Chief Executive Officer
behaviors around the world. Beyond our operational footprint,
to support women-owned SMBs around the world. Using our
we continue to form partnerships and develop new products
Practical Money and Practical Business Skills tools, we have
and services that help consumers and businesses make
Visa’s purpose is to uplift everyone, everywhere by being the best invested in localized online resources dedicated to improving
sustainable choices.
way to pay and be paid. We believe deeply in our purpose and the digital and financial literacy in more than 30 countries, providing
positive impact it has on the world. In practice, our purpose tools, partner offers and practical information around running
Our work in each of these areas is reflected in our recognition as
guides our work to digitally enable small businesses and power and growing digital-first SMBs.
a leader in our industry. In 2022 Visa was named to the Dow Jones
local economies, keep the channels of digital commerce secure,
Sustainability North America Index, the World’s Most Ethical
As the digital economy grows and evolves, it becomes
grow our workforce in a way that represents the diversity of the
Companies list and the Most JUST Companies list, among many
increasingly important to ensure it remains secure. We remain
populations we serve, and continue to operate in a way that is
other recognitions. These achievements speak to our
laser focused on the rapidly evolving threat landscape and
ethical, responsible, and sustainable.
commitment to ensure Visa runs ethically, responsibly and
continue to make strategic investments in the security of our
sustainably, with strong, independent governance. We see this
In 2022, while the global COVID-19 crisis became more ecosystem. Over the past five years, Visa has invested $10 billion
commitment as core to our business—a business that continues
manageable, many collective challenges persist. More than in technology, including efforts to reduce fraud and improve the
to grow and expand while making positive contributions to the
a billion people remain outside the formal financial system. security of our network. These efforts have been effective,
communities we serve.
The geopolitical and macroeconomic environments continue resulting in the prevention of approximately $27 billion in fraud
to be uncertain. Many small businesses still face an uphill battle in 2022 alone.
In the pages that follow, we invite you to learn more about all we
navigating the new normal. And as natural disasters increase
do to uplift everyone, everywhere and work toward a better,
Inside Visa, we continue to make positive strides toward
in frequency and strength around the globe, we are reminded
more prosperous future for all.
improving the diversity of our leadership and of all Visa
of the trials of a warming climate and the need to make
employees. We are on track to meet our Stand Together Goals—
sustainable choices. Sincerely,
to increase headcount from underrepresented groups in the
These are big challenges—the kind that will require collective, United States by 50 percent by 2025, and in leadership (VP and
concerted effort by governments, individuals and companies above) by 50 percent by the end of 2023. And in 2022, we
around the world. welcomed 75 first-year university students to the Visa Black
Ryan McInerney
Scholars and Jobs program, bringing the total number of
Chief Executive Officer, Visa
As many small businesses continue to adapt to the shifting
participants to 126, from 29 states and the District of Columbia,
environment, we believe digital payments are a crucial part
of recovery and future success. Some studies show that even
2022 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 1
FY22 Visa ESG Performance Highlights1
Delivering on our purpose: uplift everyone, everywhere by being the best way to pay and be paid
Empowering People, Enabling Trusted Commerce
Communities & Economies & Protecting Customers
40M+ $27B
Small and micro businesses digitally enabled toward 50 million goal by 2023 in fraud-related losses prevented
$1B investment Highest rating
pledged in Africa over the next five years to accelerate digital transformation in our sector from Gartner Consulting during 2022 cybersecurity review
$15.5M + over $35M $10B
committed in grant funding and impact investments, respectively, by Visa invested in technology over the last five years, including to reduce fraud and
Foundation to support gender diverse and inclusive small businesses globally enhance network security
Investing in Our People Protecting the Planet Operating Responsibly
Equal pay 89% reduction 64%
among male and female employees for the same work scopes 1 & 2 GHG emissions since FY18 Visa Board combined diversity for gender, race and
ethnicity dimensions2
$10M 100% 100
continued investment in Visa Black Scholars and renewable electricity use maintained for operations perfect score received on CPA-Zicklin index for
Jobs program Corporate Political Disclosure and Accountability
90K 600+ 11 years
hours spent by Visa employees using learning projects with Visa support of sustainable public consecutive inclusion on Ethisphere's
resources available on Visa Learning Hub transit mobility World's Most Ethical Companies list
1. For more information, see the relevant portions of this ESG Report.
2022 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 2
2. As of February 1, 2023.
Visa ESG Goals and FY22 Progress
At Visa, we are committed to helping address sustainable development challenges and create inclusive economies and a thriving planet. We track progress toward corporate goals and
map them to the United Nations (U.N.) Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which provide a blueprint for governments, businesses and civil society organizations to address the most
pressing environmental and social issues globally.
Progress
Contribution
Pillar Focus Area Visa’s Goal as of end
to the SDGs
of FY22
1 4 5 8
Empowering People, Digitally enable 50M SMBs
SMB Digital Enablement On track
Communities & Economies worldwide by the end of 2023.
9 10 17
Increase the number of under­
represented VP+ in the U.S. by
Representation of 50% in 3 years.
Underrepresented
Communities— Increase the number of under- On track 1 5 8 10
Workforce represented colleagues within
Visa overall in the U.S. by 50%
Investing in Our People in 5 years.
Track, measure, evaluate and
report annually on pay equity,
Pay Equity including 100% of regular, active Met 1 5 8 10
employees in fully-integrated
subsidiaries.
Transition to use of 100% 7 9 11
100% Renewable
renewable electricity on Met
Electricity
an ongoing basis. 12 13 17
Protecting the Planet Reduce absolute scopes 1 and 2
greenhouse gas emissions 50%
Greenhouse Gas by FY30 from a FY20 base year.
7 9 11
On track
Emissions Reduce absolute scope 3 GHG
12 13 17
emissions 42% within the same
timeframe.
Support culture of ethics
and compliance by requiring
eligible employees to annually
Operating Responsibly Culture of Ethics complete training on our Met 16 17
& Compliance global policies, programs
and initiatives built on the
foundation of the Visa Code
of Business Conduct and Ethics.
2022 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 3
About This Report
Visa’s 2022 Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Report describes our goals and work in five clusters:
1. Empowering People, Communities & Economies
2. Enabling Trusted Commerce & Protecting Customers
3. Investing in Our People
4. Protecting the Planet
5. Operating Responsibly
These five clusters are priority areas through which we seek to mitigate risk and create value and are important to Visa and our stakeholders.
For more information on how Visa identifies these priorities through our biennial Materiality process, see the Environmental, Social
& Governance Approach section of this report. Additional resources on these topics, as well as our ESG management, are available
at visa.com/esg.
This report has been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards, and is mapped to the Sustainability
Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Software & IT Services Sustainability Accounting Standard, the Task Force on Climate-related Financial
Disclosures (TCFD) recommended disclosures and relevant World Economic Forum (WEF) Stakeholder Capitalism Metrics.
This report focuses on Visa’s global ESG goals and practices. We report data related to Visa’s fiscal year 2022 (October 1, 2021–September
30, 2022) unless otherwise noted. In some cases, data and information related to our ESG priorities may include programs and activities
underway or introduced in the 2023 fiscal year. This information is noted throughout the report as relevant. All references to currency are
in U.S. dollars, unless otherwise noted. This is Visa’s eighth annual ESG Report. Visa’s previous report was published in September 2022.
Please direct questions on this report or topics related to our environmental, social and governance disclosures to sustainability@visa.com.
2022 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 4
Forward-Looking Statements
This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-
looking statements generally relate to future events or our future financial or operating performance, such as statements regarding our
ESG priority areas, commitments, and work, including goals, targets, metrics, aspirations, and related strategies. In some cases, you can
identify forward-looking statements because they contain words such as “anticipates,” “aims,” “aspires,” “believes,” “commits,” “estimates,”
“expects,” “intends,” “may,” “projects,” “plans,” “could,” “should,” “will,” “continue” and other similar expressions. All statements other
than statements of historical fact could be forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to certain
risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are beyond our control and are difficult to predict. These statements may be based on
historic or current assumptions, estimates, standards, commitments, methodologies, targets, diligence, third-party information, internal
control frameworks and currently available data, which continue to develop and evolve. Numbers and percentages used in this report are
estimates or approximations. We describe risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed
in, or implied by, any of these forward-looking statements in our SEC filings, including our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and our
subsequent reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K. In addition, actual results may vary due to changes in the macroeconomic and geopolitical
environment, technology, weather patterns and climate, regulation and legislation, engagement with stakeholders, energy prices and other
unforeseen events or conditions. Except as required by law, we do not intend to update or revise any forward-looking statements as a result
of new information, future events or otherwise.
Website references and hyperlinks throughout this report are provided for convenience only, and the content on the referenced websites
is not incorporated by reference into this report, nor does it constitute part of this report. We assume no liability for any third-party content
contained on the referenced websites.
2022 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 5
OUR COMPANY
Corporate Profile Visa at a Glance
Purpose
Visa is one of the world’s leaders in digital payments. Our purpose is to uplift everyone, Uplift everyone, everywhere by being the best way to pay and be paid
everywhere by being the best way to pay and be paid. We facilitate global commerce and
Headquarters
money movement across more than 200 countries and territories among a global set of San Francisco
consumers, merchants, financial institutions and government entities through innovative
Regional Hubs
technologies. To learn more, please visit our website, visa.com.
Foster City, Miami, Singapore, Dubai, London
2020-2022 Financial Results (GAAP) in millions (except for per share data) 145 ~26,500
Fiscal Year Ended September 30
2020 2021 2022 Global Offices and Data Centers Employees
Net revenues $21,846 $24,105 $29,310
Visa Network
Operating expenses $7,765 $8,301 $10,497
(as of September 30, 2022)
Operating income $14,081 $15,804 $18,813 • Nearly 15,000 financial institution clients
• More than 100 million merchant locations worldwide1,2
Net income $10,866 $12,311 $14,957
• 4.1 billion Visa credentials2
Shareholders' equity $36,210 $37,589 $35,581 • 193 billion total transactions processed (12 months ended September 30, 2022)
• $14 trillion total payments and cash volume (12 months ended September 30, 2022)
Diluted class A common
$4.89 $5.63 $7.00
stock earnings per share
1. Including an estimated 20 million locations through payment facilitators.
2. Data provided to Visa by acquiring institutions and other third parties as of June 30, 2022.
2022 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 7
Our Environmental, including environmental sustainability, climate change, We regularly engage our stakeholders in a variety of ways:
human rights, political activities and expenditures, social
Social & Governance • Employees: employee surveys, all-staff meetings,
impact and philanthropy. For more on the responsibilities
manager/employee dialogue, employee resource
Approach of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee,
groups (ERGs), messaging from senior leadership, digital
please refer to the Committee Charter.
platforms and social media channels.
In 2022, the Board, in full and in individual committees,
Visa is committed to operating as a responsible, ethical, • Clients: client councils, payment forums, client surveys,
discussed a range of ESG topics, including, but not limited
inclusive and sustainable company. As a global leader in direct engagement.
to, human capital management, inclusion and diversity,
digital payments, Visa strives to join with clients, partners
• Investors: earnings calls, direct shareholder
climate change, political engagement and contributions,
and other stakeholders to empower people, businesses
engagement, investor conferences, U.S. Securities and
technology, cybersecurity and data privacy.
and communities to thrive.
Exchange Commission (SEC) filings, disclosures posted
on investor.visa.com, ESG ratings firm profiles.
Materiality3
ESG Oversight
• Government and policy officials: direct engagement,
To inform our ESG strategy, we conduct a biennial materiality testimony before government bodies, participation
Visa believes in the importance of strong layers of
assessment in accordance with best practice ESG reporting as panelists at policy gatherings, industry association
governance to ensure proper guidance and oversight is
guidelines. Our latest assessment, completed in 2021, memberships and participation.
provided across our approach to ESG.
incorporates and reflects recent business developments, • Civil society organizations: direct engagement,
We manage ESG activities at a functional level across our ESG trends, global regulatory changes and internal and conferences and events, memberships in initiatives,
strategic and operational areas, with executive and Board external stakeholder expectations that have emerged individual partnerships.
oversight. Visa’s Chief Sustainability Officer is responsible since the previous formal assessment in 2019. Our process
In 2022, our ESG-focused engagement with our
for leading the coordination of oversight and development includes benchmarking, identification, prioritization and
shareholders included contacting our top 75 investors—
of our global ESG efforts. At the management level, a validation of ESG topics. We review direct feedback from
representing more than 65 percent of our outstanding
cross-functional group of more than a dozen senior shareholders, employee surveys and customer and client
Class A common stock—to discuss ESG matters, including
leaders contributes to coordinating our ESG strategy and information requests on ESG topics.
corporate governance, corporate responsibility and
reporting efforts.
sustainability, and executive compensation, in addition to
At the Board level, the Nominating and Corporate Stakeholder Engagement the regular dialogue among our stockholders and our then
Governance Committee has formal responsibility to Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Vice Chair, Chief
Through regular engagement with our stakeholders, we can
oversee and review our management of ESG matters, Financial Officer and Investor Relations team on Visa’s
improve our understanding of their views and concerns
overall ESG strategy, stakeholder engagement, formal financial and strategic performance.
and evolve our ESG strategic priorities across our business.
reporting, and policies and programs in specific areas,
3. In this report, our use of the terms “material,” “materiality” and other similar terms refers to materiality within the context of our ESG programs and priorities. We are not using these terms as they are used under the securities or other laws of the United States or any other jurisdiction or as these terms are
used in the context of financial statements and financial reporting.
2022 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 8
Our then Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Select Corporate
Lead Independent Director and our Vice Chair,
Recognition
Chief People and Corporate Affairs Officer also met
with several of our investors this year to discuss
corporate governance, corporate responsibility Dow Jones Sustainability North America Index
and executive compensation matters. 2022, S&P Global
Sustainability Yearbook
We held ESG-focused meetings with nearly 50 institutional
2023, S&P Global
shareholders representing approximately 26 percent of
FTSE4Good Index
our outstanding Class A common stock and provided the 2022, FTSE Russell
Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of
2023 America’s Most JUST Companies
the Board of Directors a quarterly update on shareholder 2023, JUST Capital
engagement and feedback. World’s Most Ethical Companies
2023, Ethisphere
Trendsetter
2022, CPA-Zicklin Index
Relevant Memberships
World’s Most Admired Companies
2023, Fortune
Global 2000 World’s Best Employers
Visa actively participates in ESG-related organizations and
2022, Forbes
peer networks focused on various sustainability topics.
World’s Most Valuable Global Brands
Key memberships include:
2022, Brandz
• Business for Social Responsibility Global RepTrak 100
2022, Reputation Institute
• Business Roundtable
• Catalyst Global 500
2023, Brand Finance
• Centre for Sport and Human Rights
Training Top 100
• Chief Executives for Corporate Purpose
2022, Training Magazine
• Clean Energy Buyers Alliance
CDP Climate Change
• Corporate Eco Forum 2022, A List
• Council for Inclusive Capitalism Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index
• Ellen MacArthur Foundation 2023
• Internet Watch Foundation MSCI
2022, A Rating
• RE100
Sustainalytics ESG Risk Rating
• Sustainable Brands
2022, Low Risk
• Travalyst
Human Rights Campaign Corporate Equality Index
• World Business Council for Sustainable Development
2022, Best Places to Work for LGBTQ+ Equality
• World Economic Forum 22002222 EEnnvviirroonnmmeennttaall,, SSoocciiaall && GGoovveerrnnaannccee RReeppoorrtt || 99
EMPOWERING PEOPLE,
COMMUNITIES & ECONOMIES
Visa is committed to advancing inclusive, equitable and sustainable economic growth for everyone, everywhere. We are
focused on reaching people—as individuals, households and business owners—who historically have been underserved,
providing them with access to digital payments and other resources that can help improve their economic livelihoods,
businesses and communities.
Our focus areas include:
• Empowering Small & Micro Businesses
• Empowering People
• Empowering Communities
Empowering Small & Micro Businesses (SMBs)
According to the United Nations, micro, small and medium enterprises account for 90 percent of businesses globally,
60 to 70 percent of employment and 50 percent of gross domestic product (GDP) worldwide, making these businesses
vital contributors to the world’s economy.1
In 2020, Visa announced a global goal to digitally enable 50 million SMBs by the end of 2023. To achieve this, we are
focused on three areas:
• Solutions
• Skills & Education
• Partnerships & Initiatives
Visa has digitally enabled over 40M small and micro businesses
toward our 50M goal.2
1. United Nations | Micro-, Small and Medium-sized Enterprises Day
2. As of September 2022.
2022 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 11
Solutions Authorize.net Democratic Republic of Congo, Congo, Cameroon,
France, South Africa, Kenya, Nigeria, Zimbabwe, Burkina
We continue to develop products and services designed A solution that helps businesses create flexible, creative
Faso, Ghana, Namibia, Gabon, Malawi, Benin, Uganda,
to advance digital equity and economic empowerment digital commerce solutions to help them grow, whether
Ethiopia, Guinea, Togo, Mali, Botswana, Chad, Tanzania,
for SMBs, including: they need help digitizing payments, establishing an online
Madagascar, Rwanda, Canada and Brazil.
presence, preventing fraud or streamlining operations.
In Peru, we also expanded Enko, a mobile business
Visa Acceptance Cloud
development platform, to continue promoting the
Skills and Education
A next-generation cloud-based acceptance platform
businesses of Venezuelans and Peruvians participating
providing a point-of-sale (POS) solution that allows
At Visa, we believe that financial education and business in the World Council of Credit Unions Economic Inclusion
business owners to convert Internet-connected device
skills can drive digital inclusion and economic growth, Project’s (EIP) entrepreneurship development programs.
to a POS device, enabling access to a low-cost and
making a positive impact on our community partners. Enko is a training and resource platform that provides
scalable payments solution.
in-depth content and practical experiences.
Visa’s Practical Business Skills educational portal
Visa Direct houses free resources and interactive tools to help
Partnerships & Initiatives
SMB owners make confident, informed decisions to
A payment solution that helps businesses and individuals
grow their business and benefit from digital commerce.
move money between billions of cards and accounts Complementing our support of solutions and skills,
The program focuses on helping growth-minded
worldwide. Businesses can use Visa Direct through their Visa creates positive business and societal impact
entrepreneurs with fewer than 10 employees thrive
financial institutions to deliver fast, simple and efficient through purpose-driven partnerships and initiatives
through a variety of resources. In 2022, Practical Business
payments to customers and workers. Individuals can use in support of SMBs.
Skills programs were accessed in 150+ countries, offered
Visa Direct to pay others back, send gifts, share costs and
in seven languages and reached more than 370,000 small Recognizing that greater digitization of commerce
support families around the world.
business owners. can bring enormous benefits to small businesses,
Tap to Phone Visa’s efforts are focused on helping both existing and
We leverage Practical Business Skills in initiatives
newly-minted small businesses be well-equipped to
An app-based solution simplifies payment acceptance globally, including:
meet changing consumer demands and embrace the
for merchants of any size. Tap to Phone allows sellers
digital future.
• Offering Online Small Business Hubs, localized online
to use a mobile application to accept payments without
resource centers available in more than 30 countries—
any additional hardware, enabling small businesses to
Inclusive Fintech 50
providing tools, partner offers and information on how
more quickly connect to the Visa network, fast-tracking
to start, run and grow digital-first small businesses. Visa is a founding supporter of the Inclusive Fintech 50
commerce for sellers around the globe.
(IF50) competition, which promotes early-stage fintechs
• Partnering with multimedia company Trace Academia
driving inclusion and resilience for financially underserved
to drive financial inclusion and education for the youth
people. Companies identified through the initiative offer
by providing Practical Business Skills training via a free,
solutions among payments and remittances, savings and
online, learning platform, giving 150,000+ users access to
personal financial management, infrastructure addressing
e-learning and teaching solutions in Ivory Coast, Senegal,
special challenges of underserved customer segments
2022 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 12
and credit or insurance solutions. IF50 aims to make these She’s Next / Women’s Economic Empowerment V isa Minority Depository
startups more visible to investors and partners who can Institutions Accelerate
Expanding women's inclusion in the financial system can
provide capital and connections.
have significant economic benefits. Our goal is to increase
In 2022, Visa announced the launch of Visa Minority
the number of women who control capital, the number
The competition, managed by the Center for Financial Depository Institutions (MDI) Accelerate, a new
of women entrepreneurs who can access that capital
Inclusion at Accion, attracted nearly 1,100 eligible program to help reduce economic disparities and
and the number of women who benefit from those
applicants over the past four years. These fintechs expand access and opportunity in communities of
businesses as employees or customers.
operate in over 160 countries, reach over 200 million color across the U.S. Through this multi-year program,
customers and have raised $2.6 billion in funding. Among Visa will invest up to $100 million via deposits with
Many of the challenges that women entrepreneurs face
a range of benefits, winners benefit from access to zero- MDIs to help catalyze lending. Visa also will provide
are universal. Visa, in collaboration with IFundWomen,
cost tools such as Visa’s Practical Business Skills and tailored insights and digital solutions to these banks
has been creating access to funding and education
Practical Money Skills. to help them meet the needs of their clientele and
for women-owned small businesses around the world
the communities they serve.
through the Visa She’s Next Grant Program.
Visa Everywhere Initiative (VEI)
In 2022, Visa’s $60M in deposits at MDIs was
In 2022, we launched the She's Next Grant Program in
VEI is a global innovation program that tasks startups with
estimated to enable $600M in new lending in Asian,
various countries including Canada, Vietnam, U.S., Ireland,
solving the payment challenges of tomorrow, further
Black, Hispanic and Native American communities.
Egypt, Morocco, UAE, Saudi Arabia, Sweden, Norway,
enhancing their own product propositions and providing
Finland, Denmark, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, the
visionary solutions for Visa’s network of partners.
Dominican Republic and Chile.
The program first launched in the U.S. in 2015. Since then,
Additionally, in the U.S., we launched She’s Next
VEI has engaged nearly 12,000 startups in more than
in Fashion, supporting 50 Black, Indigenous and/or
100 countries. Collectively, these startups have raised
People of Color (BIPOC) women-owned SMBs in the
over $16 billion in funding.
fashion and beauty industries through cash grants,
VEI is committed to supporting diversity in the startup mentorship program access and customer marketing
community as a platform for brilliant innovators of all and influencer campaigns.
races, ethnicities, ages, genders and sexual orientations.
We also continued our partnerships with Elas Prosperam
For example, in 2022 Visa conducted three competitions
to support Black women-owned businesses in Latin
focused on uplifting and supporting underrepresented
America. Through Elas Prosperam—which translates to
communities across the U.S. These competitions
"They Thrive"—Visa conducted free online training events
focused on startups owned by entrepreneurs from
and hosted one-on-one mentorship and Pitch Days with
historically underrepresented groups including Black,
Black women business owners in Brazil, helping women
Women and LGBTQ+, in partnership with StartOut.
entrepreneurs develop their businesses so that they can
earn their own income and reach financial independence.
2022 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 13
Empowering People
Communities and economies thrive when all individuals are included in the formal
financial system and can benefit from financial and digital access. The following initiatives
and partnerships focus on helping to enable equitable access to the financial and digital
ecosystem for everyone, everywhere.
Solutions
Government Disbursements
Visa Government Prepaid is an electronic disbursement method that replaces paper checks
for disbursement of government benefits—such as Unemployment Insurance, Child Support
and Temporary Assistance to Needy Families. For benefit recipients, especially those without
a banking relationship, Visa Government Prepaid cards provide a safer alternative to carrying
cash and checks and are a convenient way to receive government disbursements.
The COVID-19 pandemic highlighted the increased need for government disbursement
programs that enable quick and efficient distribution of financial support to people in need.
Visa worked with governments to reach individuals without bank accounts and encourage
people to spend locally and help stimulate economic recovery.
Gig Economy & Hourly Workers
Visa continues to develop new services and work with external partners to support gig and
hourly workers as the gig economy grows. This includes Visa Direct, Visa’s global, real-time
payments network that helps facilitate the fast delivery of funds directly to eligible cards and
bank accounts around the world.3 Visa Direct leverages Visa's infrastructure to enable
different transaction types and new money flows between parties for a wide range
of use cases, such as peer-to-peer payments and account-to-account transfers, business
and government payouts to individuals and small businesses and merchant settlements and
refunds. This can mean same-day payment for rideshare drivers, faster insurance payouts,
remittances, early access to wages and real-time marketplace payouts and has shown ongoing
appeal to businesses and consumers, including gig economy and hourly workers.3 In FY 2022,
we had 5.9 billion Visa Direct transactions, and more than 60 use cases and 2,000 programs.
3. Actual fund availability varies by receiving financial institution, receiving account type, region and whether transaction is domestic or cross-border.
22002222 EEnnvviirroonnmmeennttaall,, SSoocciiaall && GGoovveerrnnaannccee RReeppoorrtt || 1144
Visa and our Earned Wage Access technology partners Practical Money Skills, strives to link consumers, educators, Additionally, Visa and Marvel Entertainment have
help accelerate payments to workers through Visa Direct, banks and governments to the tools and resources they collaborated to release educational comic books, which
enabling workers to access and transfer earned wages need, helping individuals and communities develop their teach readers, in particular young people, about personal
to their bank accounts or eligible debit cards in real time, money management skills. The initiative offers more than finance. To date, we have distributed more than 1.2 million
rather than after the typical two-week pay cycle.3 100 online learning modules. comics in more than 20 languages.
In 2022, we continued supporting gig economy workers Practical Money Skills programs have been accessed
FinEd50
through previously established programs and partnerships, in 180+ countries, are offered in more than 20 languages
In 2022, Visa continued to partner with the Council for
including with DailyPay, FlexWage, Instant Financial, and reached over 4.9 million individuals during 2022.
Economic Education to expand the reach of FinEd50,
PayActiv, Wagestream and ZayZoon.
In 2022, to further Visa’s commitment to uplift lives through a nationwide coalition striving to ensure every American
the power of sport and using the global platform of the student has access to a financial education course.
Skills & Education
FIFA World Cup™, Visa launched an educational video The coalition focuses on advocacy to expand financial
game, bringing together entertainment and education to education requirements for students at the state and
Practical Money Skills raise awareness on financial literacy. The free educational local level and teacher training to support teacher
Greater financial knowledge can empower people to game challenges players to answer money management development at scale.
better manage their money and improve their quality of questions at various levels of difficulty for a chance to score
life. Our award-winning global financial literacy initiative, a goal.
Visa Pledges to Invest $1 Billion in Africa
In 2022, Visa pledged to invest $1 billion in Africa to accelerate digital transformation, including through scaling
operations, deploying new innovative technologies and deepening collaboration with partners. Visa’s expanded
investments demonstrate our long-term commitment to Africa’s growth potential and aim to help enable greater
access to digital payments as an entry point for expanding formal financial services for individuals and merchants.
An estimated 500 million people in Africa are without access to formal financial services, less than 50 percent of the
adult population made or received digital payments in Africa and more than 40 million merchants do not accept
digital payments.
Visa’s investments will focus in part on strengthening the payment ecosystem through new innovations
and technologies, supporting digitization of economies and investing in upskilling, talent development and
capacity building.
2022 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 15
V isa Economic Partnerships & Initiatives • Totem: an Oklahoma-based, women-founded and
Empowerment Institute led organization building a digital banking platform
Inclusive Client Partnerships catering to indigenous peoples. Totem’s goal is to
The Visa Economic Empowerment Institute
begin a new tradition of native wealth building in
Visa aims to increase engagement with clients focused
(VEEI) is an independent, non -partisan center
partnering with tribes to provide culturally relevant
on improving financial inequities and to proactively
of excellence for research and public-private
financial products, education and streamlined access
secure commercial partnerships with businesses that
dialogue on payments policy. Visa established
to tribal benefits.
are diverse-owned, diverse-led or focused on diverse
VEEI as the next step in our ongoing mission to
remove barriers to economic empowerment target markets by delivering innovative solutions to bring Digital Empowerment Program
unbanked and historically underserved communities into
and to create more inclusive, equitable economic
In partnership with Human-I-T and local communities,
the financial ecosystem.
opportunities for everyone, everywhere.
Visa’s Digital Empowerment Program provides equipment
We work to establish mission-driven partnerships, enable and education to SMBs and individuals in need. Resources
VEEI’s overarching mission is to promote public
and inspire inclusive culture and uplift communities through distributed through the program include refurbished laptops,
policies that empower citizens, small businesses
education. These goals are realized by uplifting, enabling foundational training on how to use the equipment, financial
and economies, including through VEEI's three
and supporting historically underserved communities training, one year of free tech support and low-cost
primary focus areas—fostering digital equity and
through inclusive partnerships that allow individuals and broadband access.
inclusion, unlocking growth through trade and
communities to thrive.
imagining an open future for payments.
This initiative was launched in FY22 with 2,500
Examples of inclusive partnerships include: recipients in Atlanta, Colorado and Toronto. In 2023,
In FY22, VEEI published nine papers across the
Visa is expanding the reach of the digital empowerment
topics of digital trade, future of payments and
• ZMBIZI: empowering the next generation of mobile program to additional markets within the U.S.
digital equity and inclusion, including a framework
merchants, solopreneurs and gig economy workers and Canada.
towards building an inclusive, equitable digital
with a one-stop solution for all their business related
economy. VEEI Fellows participated in 22 policy
financial transactions. ZMBIZI is working to increase
discussions in 10 different locations.
community wealth by enabling and empowering
millions of Americans to “trade on the go” with the
ability to accept in person contactless payments on
their smartphones.
2022 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 16
Support for Ukraine
Following the Russian invasion of Ukraine in early 2022, Visa took swift action to launch the Ukraine card issuing
program, an emergency program to allow Visa partners to easily and quickly issue virtual and/or physical cards
to Ukrainians and refugees who are unable to access their funds. The cards can be issued, through our partners,
from outside of Ukraine and used between friends and family, employers and charitable organizations.
Ukraine awarded its Peace Prize to Visa for its swift actions responding to the war in Ukraine in early 2022.
In addition, Visa Foundation made a $2 million grant to the United States Fund for UNICEF to provide humanitarian
assistance focused on Ukrainian families and children, including urgent need for safe water, health care, nutrition
and protection.
Financial Empowerment for Displaced People Additionally, Visa joined the Sunflower Project, a Indo-Pacific Economic Framework for Prosperity
pan-European initiative of the Tent Partnership for Upskilling Initiative
In 2022, Visa completed multi-dimensional research to
Refugees (Tent) that is focused on accelerating the
understand how payments and financial services can In 2022, Visa pledged to deliver 500,000 upskilling
inclusion of tens of thousands of Ukrainian refugee
support displaced people. Based on this research, we opportunities and access to training and education in
women across the continent through better access
began standing up a new empowerment program for digital skills to women and girls in the Indo-Pacific emerging
to jobs, training, skilling, mentoring and more. Tent is
forcibly displaced people in Europe. The intent is to economies. This is in support of the 2022-2032 Indo-Pacific
a network of 300+ major companies committed to
harness the potential of Visa’s assets and capabilities, Economic Framework for Prosperity's Upskilling Initiative,
helping refugees integrate economically by connecting
ecosystem partnerships and scale in the pursuit of led by the U.S. Department of Commerce.
them to work. Visa works with Tent as a member and
empowering forcibly displaced people. Prior to 2022,
anchor company to develop specific programs to
Europe received approximately 27 percent, or 7 million,
support these efforts in Europe.
of the world’s forcibly displaced people.4 Visa is positioned
to support forcibly displaced people throughout their
journey from the onset of displacement to long-term
integration in their host countries.
4. UNHCR | Global Trends Report 2021
2022 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 17
FPO
Empowering
Communities
We are committed to using our time, talent and resources
to support and strengthen the communities and markets
in which we operate.
At the Visa Inc. corporate level, we engage locally in our
communities through:
• Community Giving
• Employee Giving & Volunteering
• Humanitarian and Disaster Relief
In addition, Visa Foundation focuses its philanthropic
efforts through:
• Community Giving
• Humanitarian and Disaster Relief
Women in Sports
• Supporting SMBs
Sports present a significant opportunity for women to pursue their dreams, both on and off the field. Visa underscores In 2022, Visa Inc. contributed approximately $27 million to
our commitment to champion economic empowerment through our efforts to empower women at the intersection charities around the globe, while Visa Foundation funded
of business and athletics. approximately $28 million in grants. This includes matching
gifts and other amounts described throughout this section.
Visa supports the U.S. Women’s National Soccer Team and invests in women’s soccer through partnerships with
Union of European Football Associations’ Women’s Football and Visa’s longstanding partnership with the Federation
FY 2022 Giving Highlights
Internationale de Football Association (FIFA), including the FIFA Women’s World Cup™, FIFA U-17 Women's World
Cup™ and FIFA U-20 Women's World Cup™.
~$27 million
Visa Inc. Total
~$28 million
Visa Foundation Total
2022 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 18
Employee Giving and Volunteering Dollars for Doers Employees also helped support SMBs through
Visa Foundation’s partnership with Kiva, a crowdfunding
Employees can earn $10 per hour spent volunteering to
Visa employees around the world are empowered to give
microfinance organization. Through grant funding from
contribute to charities they support (up to $500 per year).
through donations of time and funds. In 2022, 80 percent
Visa Foundation, Visa employees had the opportunity
Additionally, each quarter, two employees from each
of Visa’s global employee base participated in impact
to direct $50 each in loans to SMBs on the Kiva platform.
Visa region are awarded $1,000 to give back to a charity
programs through donating, volunteering, directing loans
In 2022, 76 percent of employees participated in this effort,
of their choice. In 2022, employees raised approximately
to small businesses through the Visa Foundation and Kiva
and the Visa + Kiva partnership was awarded a Gold Halo
$474,000 through Dollars for Doers by logging
partnership and more.
Award for Best Employee Engagement Initiative. Over the
volunteer hours.
past three years, we have collectively directed over
Visa amplifies our employees’ efforts to support causes
$2.4M in loans to 52,500 SMBs in 40 countries, of whom
important to them through: Community-Based Volunteering
86 percent were women-led.
Visa leverages volunteer leadership councils, volunteer
Matching Gifts
time off and team-based volunteer events to engage and In 2022, Visa also continued our employee mentorship
Visa offers to match employees’ personal donations 1:1 inspire global volunteerism in the communities where we program with Bridge for Billions. Through this online
up to USD $10,000 per year. We also offer 2:1 matching in live and work. program, Visa employees mentor Black, primarily women-
response to major disasters and other significant events. owned SMBs in the U.S. on a three-month incubation
Visa offers two days of paid time off each year to eligible
journey to help them review their business models, define
employees to volunteer for the charity or activity of their
Visa & Giving Tuesday their financial projections, create growth plans for their
choice during work hours. Additionally, team volunteering
ventures and more.
On Giving Tuesday in 2022, Visa Foundation offered
opportunities are organized, encouraged and supported.
a double match for Visa employee donations up to
We continue to offer opportunities for virtual volunteering. Visa also partnered with Digital Boost, a mentoring
$1,000. On that day, ~3,700 employees participated
We also engage voluntary Community & Volunteering platform that allows small businesses and charities
and, combined with Visa Foundation’s match, donated
Councils around the world to facilitate our programs while to learn key digital skills to help their businesses thrive.
$6.5 million to ~4,000 organizations.
also providing employees with leadership development Through this program, Visa employees have been able
opportunities. to apply their skills and expertise to mentor founders
of small businesses.
In FY22, approximately 6,000 employees from
58 countries volunteered a total of 55,000 hours.
2022 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 19
Visa Foundation Examples of Visa Foundation partners include: In the past five years, our partnership has resulted
in reaching 8.1 million women, including 3.2 million
Visa Foundation seeks to generate measurable impact • Village Capital: provides women entrepreneurs with
women-led SMBs. Serving this population has led
by focusing on three priority areas: training, expert advice, networks and funding to help
to an 87 percent increase in women entrepreneurs
them thrive. Through Village Capital, Visa Foundation
benefiting from
• Equitable Access Initiative
has supported 70 women-led small and micro
the usage of financial services—leading to a 10 percent
• Visa Foundation Gives businesses with training, grants and access to investors,
increase in average business profits.
allocated $300,000 of capital to SMBs and created a
• Humanitarian & Disaster Relief
network of over 110 mentors and investors to support
Visa Foundation Gives
Equitable Access Initiative and advise the entrepreneurs.
Visa Foundation Gives is a new multi-year initiative
Visa Foundation launched the Equitable Access Initiative • Root Capital: connects agribusinesses with capital,
dedicated to addressing local social issues affecting
in 2020, a five-year, $200 million strategic commitment markets and opportunities that would otherwise be
vulnerable communities where Visa has a significant
to support the establishment and growth of thriving out of reach for rural economies. Through Root Capital,
office presence, and provides employees with
small and micro businesses with a focus on women Visa Foundation supported nearly 120 gender-inclusive
new opportunities to support and volunteer
entrepreneurs. As a part of the initiative, Visa Foundation businesses with access to skills, markets and finance.
in their communities.
will provide at least $60 million in grants and $140 million These small businesses in turn collectively sourced crops
in impact investments to organizations at the forefront from nearly 460,000 smallholder farmers and provided Visa Foundation plans to grant up to $250,000 over
of economic mobility through entrepreneurship. more than 15,500 jobs. two years in each selected city to one to two local
non-profit partners. Visa employees will have ongoing,
Visa Foundation’s activity has a global reach with a deep
Through its investments and grant-making activity,
parallel opportunities to support the non-profits, such
commitment to emerging economies and underserved
Visa Foundation partners with organizations that
as volunteering days or helping the selected charities
communities driving gender equity.
provide catalytic capital, capacity building and support
build their capacity through volunteer consulting.
services. Additionally, Visa Foundation uses capital as
In 2022, Visa Foundation committed $15.5 million in grants
a tool to enable the flow of investment capital to To address youth homelessness in the San Francisco
and over $35 million in impact investments supporting
gender-diverse SMBs. Bay Area, Visa Foundation made a $12 million grant to
gender diversity and inclusion for small businesses globally.
Tipping Point Community, a nonprofit organization
Additionally, Visa Foundation continued a five-year, committed to fighting poverty. Visa Foundation is
$20 million partnership with Women’s World Banking to partnering with Tipping Point and its community
support women-owned SMBs around the world. Women's network to direct these funds to impactful local service
World Banking drives impact through its scalable, market- providers in Bay Area neighborhoods with the goal of
driven financial and policy solutions, gender lens private driving lasting change in the lives of youth.
equity fund and leadership and diversity programs.
2022 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 20
Humanitarian & Disaster Relief
Visa Inc. and Visa Foundation respond to In November 2022, Visa
humanitarian crises and disasters in communities
and Visa Foundation were
around the globe by contributing resources
and unique capabilities in partnerships with
honored by the American
governments, international relief groups and
private organizations. Red Cross of the Bay Area as
Throughout 2022, Visa Inc. and Visa Foundation their Philanthropic Company
provided support to charities providing
humanitarian aid following major natural disasters of the Year for outstanding
around the world, including:
contributions in support of
• Typhoon Rai in the Philippines
the Red Cross’ efforts to help
• KwaZulu-Natal flooding in South Africa
• Flooding in Bangladesh and Pakistan communities in need as they
• Hurricane Fiona and Hurricane Ian in the U.S.
recover from natural disasters.
Visa Foundation is an Annual Disaster Giving
Program member of the American Red Cross,
representing a commitment of $500,000
annually to help the Red Cross prepare for
disasters across the U.S., such as wildfires in
Colorado and storms in California.
2022 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 21
ENABLING TRUSTED COMMERCE
& PROTECTING CUSTOMERS
Payments Security We invest in innovation to build and maintain trust for Intelligent Security Solutions
our network and the broader payments ecosystem.
The explosion of digital payments offers vast opportunity
We strive to continue to evolve our security capabilities
At Visa, we aim to increase transaction approvals so that and work to reduce system-wide global fraud. for business growth, and with this opportunity comes
businesses can thrive while customers are protected and security threats. Visa works hard to ensure that security,
satisfied—no matter where or how they pay or are paid. At Visa, security is composed of three key areas: identity protection and dispute prevention keep pace with
evolving challenges. Our multi-layered approach connects
Over the past five years, Visa has invested over $10 billion • Credentials security: the ability to secure transactions
sellers and issuers to dynamic, data-rich solutions that help
in technology, including to reduce fraud and enhance and limit financial losses for ecosystem participants.
balance fraud reduction, dispute prevention and increased
network security. Visa employs specialists dedicated to • Operational resiliency: the ability to maintain a approvals so that businesses can thrive and customers
protecting Visa’s network from malware, zero-day attacks network that is always on and helps participants identify are protected and satisfied—however they purchase,
and insider threats 24x7x365. risks, improve decision making and transact efficiently. wherever they are.
Visa also deploys artificial intelligence (AI)-enabled • Ecosystem integrity: the ability to identify and stop
Visa enables growth by letting each ecosystem participant
capabilities and always-on experts to protect our or mitigate illegal activity.
focus on what they do best. Merchants want to spend time
ecosystem, proactively detecting and preventing We measure the effectiveness of our approach to and energy building their product and service offerings
billions of dollars of attempted fraud. payments security on a regular basis. We monitor and need seamless, secure and easy-to-adopt payment
metrics such as fraud rates for Card Present and Card solutions. Cardholders want to transact with confidence
Not Present scenarios as well as transaction volumes and ease. Issuers, fintechs and other participants also have
that leverage secure technologies, such as 3-D Secure or unique value propositions for how they add value.
In 2022, Visa helped prevent an
Tokenization. Additionally, we have implemented capability
By focusing on balancing stakeholder needs and securing
roadmaps for digitalization and automation. We improve
estimated $27 billion in fraud.
the ecosystem, Visa enables specialization in a complex
the operational resilience of our network by engaging
network of interconnected participants that helps grow
with ecosystem participants to gather perspectives,
a secure and efficient engine of commerce benefitting all
Visa’s ecosystem is a network of networks that enables benchmark our thinking and approach and steer our
parties. The Visa Intelligent Security framework offers our
participants to move money for everyone, everywhere. security investments.
ecosystem partners dynamic, data-rich solutions that help
We are committed to making our ecosystem the most
balance fraud reduction and dispute prevention.
secure, resilient and trusted engine of commerce. We
continuously scan the ecosystem to identify and invest
in new capabilities, work with clients to help secure the
payments environment and take action to improve the
security, integrity and resiliency of our network.
2022 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 23
The Intelligent Security framework spans the entire Cybersecurity defend against digital identity fraud by providing strong
transaction lifecycle: consumer authentication. By building our own products,
we can keep cybersecurity data in-house.
Onboarding & Management Recognizing that the cyber threat landscape continues to
evolve, Visa is committed to championing cybersecurity Visa also makes investments to improve our cybersecurity
Provide financial institutions with tools to identify fraud at
within our operations. capabilities. We continue to implement new technologies
account opening. Through our financial institution clients,
and processes to enhance our security posture against
we provide tools to manage security, including account use We use an established risk assessment methodology and emerging threats.
restrictions and customizable alerts. framework to identify cybersecurity risks and associated
business impacts. In 2022, Visa’s security posture once No single technology in isolation can stop every threat.
Consumer Identity & Authentication again achieved the highest rating category from Gartner We deploy multiple redundant layers of preventative
Apply AI-powered authentication strategies to prevent Consulting. We continue to outperform peers in our high- and detective technologies across our network and data
unauthorized access to Visa accounts. risk, highly regulated business sector. layers to help mitigate the risk of threats. In the event
cyber criminals succeed in breaching one layer, the doors
At Visa, we build and use AI to detect and secure cyber beyond that layer are designed to lock. We collaborate
Transaction Authorization
threats. We approach cybersecurity with a layered and share our security approach with industry peers,
Use tools such as Visa Advanced Authorization, which
defense-in-depth strategy. We further advance our clients and competitors.
applies real-time AI and machine learning to evaluate the
capabilities based on our core areas of focus, including
trustworthiness of transactions to prevent fraud without enhancing our architecture, expanding our data security Our cybersecurity approach is supported by robust
inconveniencing consumers. program to include unstructured data and conducting governance processes that involve regular reporting to
continuous security and efficacy efforts. Visa developers management- and Board-level committees responsible for
Dispute Management build security into applications with the very first lines risk management and cybersecurity oversight. We provide
Help consumers and issuers proactively address of code. We augment our core detection capabilities regular updates to the full Board, including an annual
transaction disputes with Visa tools such as Verifi, which with a proactive approach, where we “hunt” for traces in-depth review.
provides issuers and customers access to transaction of malicious activity to intercept would-be attackers.
The following sections describe some of the components
information from sellers via a global data-sharing network.
Visa uses novel innovation in the new field of behavior we use to enact our cybersecurity strategy across
biometrics coupled with the economics of vendor the business.
Performance Optimization
offerings to champion the development of AI products
Enhance payment performance by reducing fraud and
that support cybersecurity. Our cybersecurity team Policy & Training
increasing efficiency.
develops solutions in-house to meet our stringent security
requirements. Customized Visa-engineered solutions Visa’s cybersecurity policy framework, the Key Controls,
We continue to work with clients across different regions
include Visa Identity Behavior Analytics, which helps details our approach to protecting our information
to meet their unique needs and accelerate the adoption of
and technology assets, including the safe handling of
these solutions.
consumer nonpublic personal information.
2022 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 24
The Cybersecurity Governance, Risk and Compliance prevention and secure file transfer, periodic blog articles collect, analyze and use cyber threat intelligence while
(GRC) organization is responsible for the ongoing covering seasonal threats and relevant tips, such as secure providing continuous real-time validation of our security
administration of the Key Controls, with specific remote working, executive announcements on key themes tools and assets. We augment our data with intelligence
oversight provided by the Cybersecurity Policy team. The and instructor-led training and speaker sessions. from hundreds of unique sources to enhance detection
Key Controls are reviewed at least annually and updated and response capabilities.
Each October, Visa celebrates Cybersecurity Awareness
as needed to address any changes to industry or regulatory
Month with a month-long, multi-channel messaging We also leverage AI and deep learning technology to
requirements, new technologies or emerging threats.
campaign, including online articles, training modules, monitor our network and understand the threats aimed at
We provide new employees with security awareness speaker sessions and additional online content. our company. As cybersecurity risks continue to develop,
training and conduct annual Key Controls training for all we are focused on maintaining our security posture ahead
staff, to promote good cyber-hygiene and familiarity with of the evolving threat landscape. We strengthened our
Adaptive Resiliency
Visa processes and tools. In 2022, 100 percent of eligible supply chain by completing additional risk assessments.
employees completed Key Controls training. Additionally, We regularly conduct cross-functional response and Our efforts to mitigate risks, including malware attacks,
Visa Cybersecurity has launched an e-curriculum of online resiliency exercises involving multiple internal teams as data breaches and phishing scams, focus on continuous
training modules covering such topics as Phishing, well as external partners and agencies. cybersecurity threat identification.
Data Security, Security Assessment and more.
In 2022, we further evolved the Visa Cyber Fusion At Visa, our comprehensive digital transformation
We publish cybersecurity awareness content to Framework to drive an active and adaptive global Cyber addresses cyber resiliency by continuously looking for
employees across multiple enterprise channels Defense capability. This capability allows us to meet the changing attack surfaces, risk management and evolving
periodically throughout the year. These include intranet increasing threat landscape through the ability to rapidly threats. Launched in 2022, our Cyber Product Engineering
pages dedicated to various topics such as phishing team is heavily focused on increasing our investment in
2022 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 25
AI and integrating it into our security models, zero trust architecture and cloud adoption. This
approach will enable our systems to adjust based on learnings and behaviors by adapting real-
world changes and informing decision making for complex activities.
Moreover, Cyber Product Engineering aims to design, build and maintain a suite of
cybersecurity systems and controls that help defend against cyber threats while offering
a resilient and robust cybersecurity posture for Visa.
We continue to focus on monitoring and protecting our critical assets including networks,
computers, digital assets and databases from attacks, damage or unauthorized access.
Furthermore, we continue to engineer and innovate preventive and detective solutions to
advance the capabilities of our sensors, automation and visualization tools. In doing so, we are
focused on maintaining our security posture ahead of the evolving threat landscape.
Audits & Third-Party Certifications
To promote the effectiveness of our cybersecurity approach and systems, we conduct
multiple internal and external audits of our IT infrastructure and applications every year. These
systems also are subject to examination by the Federal Banking Agencies and other regulators
from across the globe. Examples of external reviews include: Payment Card Industry Data
Security Standard, Statement on Standards for Attestation Engagements (SSAE-18) and
International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3402.
In addition, the Cybersecurity team and the Global Privacy Office partner closely together
so that cybersecurity requirements in applicable laws and regulations are vetted and
incorporated into Visa’s cybersecurity program.
Responsible Data Use
When it comes to data at Visa, our focus is simple: to use the data entrusted to us to enable
individuals, businesses and economies to thrive. Visa relies on data to improve the security and
value of the Visa network, better serve our clients and partners, protect consumers from fraud
and drive positive impact for communities and economies around the globe.
22002222 EEnnvviirroonnmmeennttaall,, SSoocciiaall && GGoovveerrnnaannccee RReeppoorrtt || 2266
We recognize consumers are concerned about how their Fairness Building trust begins with a commitment to privacy and
data is collected, used, shared and kept secure. security, which instills confidence in our employees and
Visa’s application of data and data-driven insights aims
clients, protects our brand and allows us to innovate
to be fair and inclusive and avoid discrimination. Visa will
At Visa, we have adopted policies and practices designed
responsibly. We also recognize that data is a powerful tool
strive to make our models explainable, accurate and safe.
to embed accountability for data practices throughout the
that can fuel innovation, improve customer experiences,
organization and enable responsible execution through
safeguard consumers from fraud and deliver new value
Accountability
the expertise of dedicated security, privacy and data
to consumers.
professionals working around the world on these topics. Visa’s approach to data use should be consistently applied
at all levels of the organization and be embedded through Our focus is simple: to use the data entrusted to us in
process, training and management responsibilities. a responsible manner to benefit consumers and help
Data Values
businesses and economies grow. We embed these and
The application of these principles may evolve over time,
Emphasizing our commitment to responsible data use, other practices through a robust privacy program that
adapting to new privacy and data-related regulations
the Visa Data Values, adopted in 2020, capture the allows us to measure and monitor organizational practices.
and standards that may emerge, based on the needs of
principles that we apply when we collect, use and share We strive to be transparent about our data practices.
consumers, businesses and economies. As Visa’s business
consumer data. Data innovation is a vital component of To learn more about how Visa collects, uses and shares
moves into new technologies, payment flows and value
Visa’s strategy—and in everything we do—built on our Personal Information, as well as the privacy choices we
added services, we are committed to engaging with
60-year legacy of responsible data stewardship. offer, please refer to our Visa Global Privacy Notice.
policymakers and regulators worldwide to participate in
the development and harmonization of data focused laws, Visa’s Global Privacy Office, composed of dozens of
Security
regulations and standards. privacy professionals around the world, is led by Visa’s
Individuals and businesses should have confidence that
Chief Privacy Officer and closely coordinates with several
Visa payment data is safe. There is no higher priority
cross-functional teams and governance bodies, including
for Visa than safeguarding those who use our products,
Data Privacy the Cybersecurity team and Global Data Office.
services and network.
The Corporate Risk Committee and the Visa Inc. Audit and
Control Risk Committee oversee the Global Privacy Program and
Visa operates one of the world’s largest payment networks,
the risks related to data privacy, including our compliance
Visa will always strive to provide simple explanations and respecting privacy is central to our purpose. Visa has
with current and emerging data protection laws around
regarding how data may be used and to empower a Global Privacy Program to ensure proper safeguards be
the world.
individuals with easy processes to manage use of their data. applied to personal information we collect, use and share.
Our Privacy Program is centered on key privacy principles
Value that allow the Privacy Program to adapt alongside
Visa’s global footprint, taking into account industry
Data use at Visa should benefit individuals, businesses
benchmarks and best practices in addition to evolving
and economies. We strive to do this by delivering greater
laws and regulations.
security, financial inclusion and consumer convenience.
2022 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 27
Responsible Use of
Artificial Intelligence (AI)
Bias, or the potential of producing unlawful discrimination
or disparate impact, is one of the greatest risks posed by AI.
Bias can enter the product lifecycle at many stages, and Visa
believes in proactive mitigation and monitoring. Visa’s Model
Risk Management (MRM) team reviews modeling techniques
and sets technical standards for model performance while
seeking to produce models that are are fit-for-purpose.
We have an internal MRM Committee to help apply
governance and data safeguards to our use of AI, as well
as cross-functional stakeholder discussions on emerging
AI regulations.
Visa has developed a
multi-layered governance and
accountability structure for
models and algorithms, including
operational, legal, privacy and
risk-based frameworks.
2022 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 28
Transaction Integrity Visa continues to enhance and evolve our risk programs • Works with acquirers to identify and terminate
to meet the needs of a constantly changing payments merchants that are selling illegal items and services.
Visa connects the world through the most innovative, landscape. The Visa Integrity Risk Program (formerly known • Engages with law enforcement to stay abreast of
reliable and secure payments network—enabling as the Global Brand Protection Program), for example, ecosystem risks.
individuals, businesses and economies to thrive. Visa is establishes a set of ecosystem controls, requirements and
• Supports industry and cross-industry organizations and
committed to maintaining the integrity of our payment capabilities that seek to deter, detect and remediate non-
initiatives such as the Financial Coalition Against Child
system. We do not tolerate the use of our network and compliant transactions across our network. This framework
Sexual Exploitation, a joint initiative of the International
products for illegal activity, and we are vigilant in our helps network participants that support merchants in legal
Centre for Missing & Exploited Children and the National
efforts to deter illegal activity on our network. businesses that are at higher risk for illicit activity maintain
Center for Missing & Exploited Children, and the Internet
proper controls and oversight processes to identify
Visa has longstanding rules and processes designed to and deter unlawful transactions from entering the Watch Foundation.
uphold the integrity of our network. Our approach to Visa payment system. • Combats counterfeiting and piracy in partnership with
protecting the network is tethered to the law and grounded the International Anti-Counterfeiting Coalition.
in the Visa Rules and our robust compliance programs. It is As part of the Program, Visa:
Visa is also a member of the Alliance for Safe Online
Visa’s policy to follow the law of every country in which we
• Maintains registration requirements for acquirers and Pharmacies, a global initiative that works to combat illegally
do business.
merchants, pursuant to which acquirers attest to their sold prescription medicines.
We do not make moral judgments on legal purchases merchants’ compliance with our standards.
made by consumers, and we respect the rightful role • Provides acquirers guidance and direction on controls to
of lawmakers to make decisions about what is legal help comply with Visa’s rules.
and what is not. However, when participants on the
• Proactively monitors participant transaction activity via
network are unable to meet our requirements, including
machine- learning solutions.
compliance with applicable law, we levy financial penalties
and, based on the circumstances, suspend or terminate
them from our system.
2022 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 29
INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE
Being a Visa employee means you are supported by over Inclusion & Diversity S tand Together
26,500 colleagues who are inspired by a common purpose
Initiative
to uplift everyone, everywhere by being the best way to
pay and be paid. We celebrate our employees’ unique life At Visa, promoting Inclusion and Diversity (I&D) is a focus
experiences, talents, passions and the contributions they for our business, and we do so throughout the regions
In 2020, Visa made a public commitment to Stand
can make to drive innovation in the payments technology in which we operate, focusing on the issues most relevant
Together, our effort to help support social justice
industry. We invest in our people to be an employer of to each region. Visa’s I&D strategic objectives include:
and racial equality impacting our people, company
choice through the following areas: • Talent & Culture: supporting diverse talent in a culture and society.
• Inclusion & Diversity focused on inclusion.
• Employee Talent, Growth & Learning • Partnership & Community: amplifying partnerships
Our Stand Together goals include:
for societal and business benefits.
• Visa Total Rewards • Increasing the number of employees from
• Process & Capabilities: enabling global I&D through
• Employee Wellbeing underrepresented groups at the vice president
a center of excellence on measurement and best
level and above in the U.S. by 50 percent by 2023.
• Employee Safety & Security practices.
• Increasing the number of underrepresented Visa
• Leadership & Communications: supporting I&D
employees in the U.S. by 50 percent by 2025.
outcomes linked to talent, brand, community and
We have made strong overall progress toward the
business actions.
objectives of our Stand Together initiative and are
We celebrate our employees’ on track to meet or exceed these goals.
unique life experiences, talents, As part of this commitment to Stand Together,
we have expanded culturally-focused development
passions and the contributions
programs to support Black, African American, Latino,
they can make. Hispanic and other underrepresented groups.
These programs include a partnership with the
McKinsey Leadership Academy as well as internal skill
building and coaching programs for employees across
job levels at Visa.
2022 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 31
Our People Visa Employees By increasing, developing and investing in diverse
talent, we create more socially and racially equitable
We invest in a workplace that encourages diversity
Visa is a people-centric company with supportive colleagues teams within Visa. In the U.S., Visa offered two
of thought, culture and background so that diverse
who lift each other up in a culture of caring and respect. In the development programs, Brij the Gap and I to the
perspectives are embedded in the work that we do.
U.S., we have embedded our commitment to inclusion and 4th Power, to underrepresented groups through
We strive to create an inclusive workplace by valuing
diversity in the hiring process by introducing best practices partnerships. These programs offered solutions to
all employees and investing in robust inclusion and
such as including diverse candidates in candidate slates and support diverse employees as they transition into new
diversity training.
diverse hiring panels. experiences and job levels. In addition, mentorship,
In 2022, we continued Leading and Belonging at Visa, sponsorship and cluster coaching was offered to Black
Our executive team regularly reviews a diversity metrics
a learning experience for leaders, created in partnership and African American employees.
dashboard and initiatives that drive recruitment, retention,
with the Perception Institute, an organization that
internal mobility and advancement. By regularly reviewing
translates mind science research on race and other
this data, we can evaluate our progress and challenge
identities into solutions that help reduce bias and
ourselves toward further change.
promote belonging.
WORKFORCE DEMOGRAPHICS1
Gender in Global Workforce Gender in Global Leadership2 Gender in U.S. Workforce Gender in U.S. Leadership2 Ethnicities in U.S. Workforce Ethnicities in U.S. Leadership2
3% 2%
18%
7%
42% 36% 44% 36% 36% 41%
58% 64% 56% 64%
60%
13%
12% 8%
Male Female Asian Black Hispanic White Other3
1. Data is based on company records as of September 30, 2022.
2. Leadership: VP and above.
3. Other: American Indian/Alaska Native, Native Hawaiian/Other Pacific Islander and two or more races. Ethnicity data does not include undeclared and blanks.
2022 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 32
In Europe, Visa participates in an ethnic diversity Talent expenses for undergraduate students, offering Employee Resource Groups (ERGs)
Accelerator program, which supports the progression of mentorship, skills building opportunities, career
With over 9,000 members across the globe, Visa’s ERGs
underrepresented professionals at the senior manager and development, networking opportunities and work
are employee-led networks that support a diverse,
director levels, enabling participants to grow into leading experience to scholarship recipients.
equitable and inclusive workplace. The ERGs complement
change makers and role models at Visa.
• Singapore: launched the second cohort of the Visa our broader corporate inclusion and diversity efforts
Technology Traineeship Program, a 12-month work- and help foster an inclusive workplace environment that
In our Asia Pacific region, the Young Professionals ERG
based learning and talent development program that derives the benefits of diverse employees' talents, skills
piloted a four-month group MentoRING program on topics
brings Visa's payment and payment network technology and abilities.
such as career planning, building networks and finding
expertise to Singaporeans interested in starting a career
purpose and work-life balance.
In 2022, Visa laid the foundation for increased ERG
in technology.
effectiveness and impact by launching a global ERG
Developing the Future Workforce • South Africa: hosted a 12-month Learnership Program
strategy, developing annual operating plans and
intended to facilitate skills development and upskill
Outside of our existing workforce, we promote assigning executive committee-level sponsors.
school leavers from less privileged communities who
economic opportunity and a diverse talent pipeline
cannot afford higher education to prepare the students In 2022, Visa’s ERGs included:
through internships, scholarships, mentoring and
for the workplace through a Learning Academy and
skill building. Progress in 2022 included: • Latinx Connect
on-the-job training.
• Native, Allies, Tribal & Indigenous Voices
• U.S.: announced the recruitment of a second cohort of
• Ukraine: supported the initiative that aims to inspire Everywhere (NATIVE)
75 students as part of our Visa Black Scholars and Jobs
and empower 5,000 Ukrainian women to start creative
• Military Employee Resource Group (MERG)
Program; in partnership with the Thurgood Marshall
and tech careers if they have been displaced following
Foundation College Fund. The $10 million Program offers • Parents & Careers
the Russian invasion of Ukraine. In April 2022, Projector
select college-bound Black and African American high • Visa Asian Employee Network (VAEN)
Institute with the support of Ukraine’s Ministry of Digital
school students in the U.S. yearly scholarship assistance,
Transformation launched the Projector Creative and • Visa Employees with Visible/Invisible Disabilities (ViAble)
mentorship from Visa employees and the opportunity
Tech Foundation initiative, which includes special short • Visa Black Employee Network (ViBE)
for an immersive internship experience. Those who
courses covering a range of creative, digital and IT related
• Visa Indian Alliance (VINA)
meet all program requirements will receive a full-time
skills to give participants the knowledge and practical
job offer with Visa after graduation. • Visa PRIDE
skills to relaunch their careers.
• Visa Women’s Network (VWN)
• U.K. and Spain: extended our scholarship programs
in partnership with the Windsor Fellowship (U.K.) and • Visa Young Professionals
Dadoris Foundation (Spain) to support students from • Race Ethnicity and Cultural Heritage (REACH) – E.U. only
underrepresented and economically disadvantaged
backgrounds by covering tuition fees or monthly
2022 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 33
Fostering Allyship
In FY22: We believe active allyship and reducing unconscious bias
are key to fostering an inclusive workplace. We encourage
Women earned $1.00 for
employees to gain knowledge of colleagues' backgrounds
and experiences. We provide training opportunities to
every $1.00 earned by men for
equip our employees with resources and tools to become
the same work globally, and active allies and learn behaviors that build a workplace
where diverse perspectives are valued.
underrepresented employees
Allyship efforts include shared experiences through our
earned $1.01 for every $1.00 Stand Together Inclusion & Diversity Talks speaker series,
a global education opportunity for Visa employees
earned by white employees
designed to promote active learning. We welcome
guest speakers for thought-provoking conversations
for the same work in the U.S.
that embrace global experiences and points of view.
Highlights from the 2022 Inclusion & Diversity Talks include:
• Educator and race and gender activist Reverend
Nontombi Naomi Tutu
• Fashion designer, television personality and author
Tan France
• CEO of Voto Latino and MSNBC analyst
Maria Teresa Kumar
• Television personality Lisa Ling
22002222 EEnnvviirroonnmmeennttaall,, SSoocciiaall && GGoovveerrnnaannccee RReeppoorrtt || 3344
Pay Equity In using an inclusion-first approach, we can develop Marketing Responsibly
products that reflect the full range of diversity in identity
As part of building an inclusive and equitable organization, We also are using the strength and influence of the Visa
and experiences of our clients, partners and consumers.
we are committed to tracking, measuring, evaluating and brand to foster inclusive communities. Visa continues
For more on our supplier diversity initiatives, please see
reporting annually on our workforce demographics and to reflect historically underrepresented groups in our
Responsible Sourcing.
pay equity. marketing campaigns, sponsorships and events, such
as Visa’s partnership with a diverse set of Team Visa
Visa’s goal is to include 100 percent of regular, active Promoting Accessibility
athletes who are representative of the communities
employees in fully-integrated subsidiaries in our equal
Accessibility involves designing, developing and testing where we live and work.
pay analysis. Our most recent analysis was based on
digital experiences to make them accessible for people
FY22 total compensation, which includes base salary, Since the Team Visa program’s inception more than
with disabilities, including those that affect a user’s visual,
annual cash incentives and annual long-term incentive 20 years ago, Visa has championed more than
mobility, cognitive or hearing ability. Careful design and
awards, and included 99.8 percent of all regular, active 540 athletes—55 percent of whom have been women,
implementation help create a good user experience for all.
employees of all fully-integrated subsidiaries of Visa underscoring Visa’s efforts to empower women athletes
as of September 30, 2022. The global standard for accessibility is the Web Content and shift the paradigm of brands backing women in sport.
Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.1 AA, which aims to
In 2022, we continued our Creative Review Advisory
help reduce barriers for people with disabilities. In order
Our Company
Council that reviews and advises on Visa marketing and
to provide ease and consistency, we created our Visa
communications campaigns in the U.S. so that input from
We are also using our influence as a company to catalyze Global Accessibility Requirements (VGAR) to support
historically underrepresented communities is embedded
change externally. For example, we are working to diversify Visa staff. VGAR is a five-step methodology that supports
in each campaign, supporting Visa’s purpose. The Advisory
our supply chain by updating sourcing language and compliance with international accessibility standards
Council consists of Visa employees who are members of
considering diversity when making supplier selections. and requirements. For more on VGAR, please visit the
an ERG with diverse racial, cultural and gender identities,
For more information on our supplier diversity efforts, Visa Developer Center.
and represent varying job levels in non-marketing and
see the Operating Responsibly section of this report.
non-communications roles.
At Visa, we focus on creating inclusive and accessible
products that can serve as many people as possible.
We believe inclusive product design produces better
and more thoughtful products and is an important
element of our purpose to uplift everyone, everywhere
by being the best way to pay and be paid.
2022 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 35
Employee Talent, Additionally in 2022, we piloted our Internal Career • Ignite—Leading Visa Forward: Focused on developing
Readiness and Mobility Program in North America, aimed organizational agility and resilience to deliver sustainable
Growth & Learning
to help employees succeed as they explore career paths long-term commercial growth. In FY22, we delivered
within the company. We intend to share learnings with the program to 124 senior leaders globally, tripling the
our other geographic regions for global application. number compared to FY21.
Visa’s longstanding commitment to invest in our employees
includes robust development and education programs • Leading for Growth Country Manager Program:
Performance Reviews
in areas of payments, technology, inclusion and diversity, Aimed at equipping country managers to drive
professional development and leadership. Our simplified performance review process—which sustainable long-term growth and creating a global
consists of goal setting, midyear check-ins and community for country managers to collaborate and
annual reviews—is meant to strengthen performance share best practices.
Talent and Learning Strategy
conversations to drive growth and improvement across
• Amplify— Harnessing Your Authentic Voice: Aimed
our workforce. These formal touchpoints are supported
Visa seeks to develop, attract and retain through a talent at helping women find and enhance their authentic voice
by ongoing conversations throughout the year to ensure
and learning strategy that results in a capable, skilled, as a leader through creating personal narratives and
employees receive regular recognition, coaching and
engaged and continuously developing workforce. exploring values, courage, negotiation and influencing.
feedback to meet their goals and grow their impact.
We aim to propel next-generation leaders and enable In FY22, we delivered the program to nearly 80 women
During our 2022 annual review process, 100 percent of
career growth through technical and functional skill leaders at the director/senior director level across NA,
eligible employees completed a self-assessment and
development and enhanced ways of working. LAC and Europe.
96 percent received a written manager assessment.
• Leading Across Visa: Designed to support commercial
Career Development Framework
leadership by developing decision-making, strategy,
All Visa employees have a career development framework Learning and Development execution and collaboration. Participants play the
and set of resources and digital tools to plan their career role of Visa’s senior leadership while competing in an
We believe Visa’s talent development practices and
growth at the company. We actively encourage employees intensive business simulation. We delivered the program
programs are best in class and cover a spectrum of
to explore growth opportunities and recently revised to over 370 directors/senior directors globally, more than
topics and delivery channels. We support employees
our Internal Mobility Guidelines to reduce job doubling the audience compared to FY21.
in their development through our award-winning Visa
mobility restrictions.
University (VU). Visa also offers regionally-tailored programs, including the
Engagement from employees and people leaders following FY22 highlights:
across the organization remained high in 2022. Most People Leadership
employees use a self-selected growth path to direct their Asia Pacific (AP) Region:
Highlights of VU FY22 People Leadership Programs and
development, and people leaders engage in regular career • AP Leadership Program: Delivered a six-month program
Initiatives include:
and growth conversations with individual team members. to about 25 senior directors and high-potential directors.
• Leaders as Coach: Designed to enhance coaching skills
with an emphasis on practical career conversations.
In FY22, we delivered 20 sessions to 780 participants.
2022 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 36
• AP People Leader Series: Delivered program to about
300 people leaders through learning, practice and
community learning.
• Mentor Academy: Delivered two mentoring
courses, “Traits of an Effective Mentor” and “Inclusive
Mentoring,” to build capabilities and enable employees
to be effective mentors through a four-step
framework process.
Central Europe, Middle East and Africa (CEMEA) region:
• Delivered VU’s LEAP Development Program to
FY22 Learning Resource Utilization and Feedback
32 high-potential participants with 90 percent of
the CEMEA leadership team participating as
teachers and advisors. 89% of Visa employees participated in one or more formal Visa University learning
programs or used one or more Visa University learning programs.
Technology Learning
Visa University’s technology and functional learning
portfolio continues to evolve to include upskilling our 69% of Visa employees used one or more self-paced, anytime, anywhere digital learning resources.
employees on cutting-edge technologies. In August
2022, we introduced a Cloud Computing Learning Month
Over 450,000 learning hours completed across all modalities.
for the Technology organization, where internal experts
and external thought leaders addressed our multi-cloud
strategy and its implications for architecture, development,
security and data.
Data analytics and governance training for Visa’s data Visa Learning Hub Learning Festival
science community helped over 1,000 employees remain Visa provides nearly 200,000 self-paced learning content In 2022, we hosted Visa’s fourth annual global Learning
fluent in their data use obligations. The training helps items for anytime, anywhere learning, including content Festival, with more than 50 virtual global sessions and
ensure data is safeguarded and work is performed in developed by Visa experts and leading industry partners. interactive in-person events in 26 locations. Five members
compliance with Visa’s data use policies, providing Visa We averaged 10,000 visitors per month, a 25 percent of Visa executive management and multiple external
with a competitive edge. increase year-over-year. In 2022, Visa employees spent thought leaders contributed to the event, created to
more than 90,000 hours using our content libraries, inspire employee curiosity around the theme “Connect.”
More than 1,500 employees completed the Phishing and
averaging 7,500 hours a month, which more than doubled The Learning Festival saw 31,000 event registrations and
Social Engineering module of our Cybersecurity Practices
year-over-year. 29 percent employee participation, a 36 percent increase
Series, critical to preventing security incidents.
from FY21.
2022 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 37
Employee Engagement Visa conducted employee research and identified three As Visa launched flexible work in 2022, we shifted our focus
key areas where we thrive: impact, growth and inclusivity. to supporting employees in a hybrid work environment.
At Visa, our employees appreciate that they can make an We implemented a listen-and-learn strategy by primarily
At Visa, we believe that building an inclusive and high- impact with a purpose-driven industry leader, drive their focusing our employee surveys for the first half of the
performing culture requires an engaged workforce, where growth within a growing company and be part of a people- year on capturing employee preferences as we returned
employees are motivated to do their best work every day. centered company that invests in its employees. to Visa offices.
Our engagement approach centers on communication,
monitoring and recognition. Employee Surveys and Employee Feedback With offices around the globe open for in-person
collaboration by late 2022, in December we launched
We assess employee engagement through a variety of
Employee Value Proposition a comprehensive survey to all employees to collect
channels, including employee surveys, which provide
feedback on 13 dimensions, including common drivers of
In 2022, we launched Visa’s Employee Value Proposition feedback on a variety of topics such as company direction
employee engagement. Eighty-nine percent of employees
(EVP), Powering Payments, Empowering People, linked and strategy, wellbeing, inclusion and diversity, individual
responded to the global survey.
to our purpose, to help attract new talent and engage growth and development, collaboration, confidence
and retain current employees. and pride.
2022 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 38
In 2022, 95 percent of participating employees reported that they
feel proud to work for Visa, up 1 point from our 2021 pulse survey
and 9 points higher than the software and service industry average.
Through this survey, we heard that 92 percent of Employee Communications Our benefits vary by location and may include:
employees understand the link between their work and
Visa values maintaining various streams of communication
• Paid new child bonding leave, with a minimum of 14
our company’s strategic objectives. Additionally, 91 percent
with our employees to keep them informed and to listen
weeks for all parents
of employees are proud to work for a purpose-driven
to their needs. In FY22, we communicated with our
company and would recommend Visa as a great place • Family emergency leave
employees through regular video updates from our then
to work. The strong engagement reflects high marks for
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, company intranet, • Education assistance tuition reimbursement program
manager effectiveness and notable progress across key
digital signage, social media, Visa TV, email newsletters, live
• Child and elder care services
areas of focus including belonging and career growth.
events in regional offices and quarterly all-staff meetings.
• Concierge and errand running services
Visa also conducts employee surveys, all-staff town
Employee Recognition
halls, live Q&A sessions and fireside chats to encourage • Various insurance products
Our recognition programs, such as Visa’s Go Beyond employees to share their voice with the company.
• Fertility, surrogacy and adoption benefits
platform, allow managers and peers to recognize
• Milk shipping/lactation support
employees who exemplify Visa’s leadership principles.
In 2022, Visa focused on creating a global blueprint for • Discount programs
Visa Total Rewards
standardizing and promoting a culture of recognition. This
• Generous paid time off and holidays
blueprint includes comprehensive practices for event- and
• Paid volunteer time and time off for voting in elections
performance-based amplification across the moments We structure our total rewards and benefits package
that matter in the employee lifecycle. In 2022, we laid the to attract and retain a talented and engaged global • Ability to work from another location for up to
groundwork for our new UPLIFT recognition program, workforce. We provide comprehensive wellbeing, financial four weeks
planned for launch in spring of 2023. and quality-of-life coverage and continue to evolve our • Commuter assistance
programs to meet employee needs. Our benefits package
With the programs we have established, employee For comprehensive information about employee benefits,
includes competitive compensation, annual bonus,
sentiment is on the rise. In 2022, 82 percent of employees please visit Visa’s Benefits website.
Employee Stock Purchase Plan, a two-for-one 401(k) match
reported that they feel recognized for good work, up
in the United States, mental health resources and flexible
5 points from our 2021 pulse survey and 11 points higher
work arrangements.
than the software and service industry average.
2022 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 39
Visa Supports Employees after Employee Wellbeing Employee Safety
Russian Invasion of Ukraine
& Security
After the Russian invasion of Ukraine in early 2022, Promoting good workplace mental health is a priority
Visa provided rapid response to support Visa for our business and our employees. As a company,
Visa has a long-standing commitment to protect the
employees by: we are deeply committed to employees’ mental health
physical safety of our global workforce. Responsibility
and wellbeing and have been expanding our wellness
• Supporting Visa employees impacted by the and oversight of employee safety resides with the Visa
offerings—not just for extreme circumstances, but for
invasion, including assisting with evacuation Global Security and Safety (GSS) team, which promotes
every day.
from Kiev to Western Ukraine and abroad and the safety of Visa’s employees and contingent workers by
providing accommodation support for employees • We offer free coaching and therapy services that are establishing health and safety practices. The GSS team
and families. available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week (24/7). These maintains a global Safety, Health and Environmental Policy
services are provided by Modern Health and available and provides relevant training to the executive team and
• Maintaining a hotline mailbox and daily standing
by phone, in an app, in a video chat or in person. All U.S.- key employees.
calls with relevant Visa teams to address any
based employees are eligible to use the Modern Health
immediate concerns or queries. To track our health and safety performance, Visa
services, regardless of enrollment in other Visa benefits.
• Supporting Visa employees impacted by our conducts monthly and annual audits of our health and
• We offer an Employee Assistance Program as a free
suspension of operations in Russia, including safety equipment and facilities. Each month we track and
service available to all employees and their immediate
identifying new opportunities with Visa or audit our near misses, injuries and worker compensation
family to access in-person or telephone counseling.
supporting their transition from the company. claims.
Telephone counseling is available 24/7.
• Delivering wellness sessions such as “Dealing In 2022, we launched a global safety campaign to teach
• In FY22, we extended No Meeting Friday Afternoons and
with Crisis” and ”Resilience.” lifesaving skills that help keep our workplace safe. Over
offered Wellbeing Hours to give employees additional
• Providing coaching sessions with 1,000 employees participated by completing Safety
time to focus on themselves.
external speakers. Ambassador, First Aid, CPR/AED or Stop the Bleed classes,
• We held “Sharing Space” sessions for employees to learn
which we believe helps the families, neighbors and
insights and tips from outside experts about mental
communities of Visa employees be more prepared for
health and wellbeing.
an emergency.
In 2022, Visa continued to offer the Be Well Wellbeing Hub
Visa assesses and manages safety risks, provides
to share tools, workshops and wellbeing benefits programs
security measures and oversees emergency response
organized by region. We also encourage employees to join
by monitoring:
our Be Well Community to connect with colleagues for
wellness-focused activities and events. • Emerging security threats, such as natural disasters,
civil unrest and terrorist attacks identified through
security, government and media sources.
22002222 EEnnvviirroonnmmeennttaall,, SSoocciiaall && GGoovveerrnnaannccee RReeppoorrtt || 4400
• Personnel on business travel and employees who The Program includes an online office ergonomics training
are working outside their home countries. and guidance on how to identify opportunities to improve
working habits and adjust workspaces. Upon completion
• Company assets, including facilities and strategic
of the training, employees receive a personalized plan to
third-party sites.
address ergonomic issues.
Visa’s support for employee safety includes providing
information and resources for employees to work
effectively and safely. To promote healthy remote work
Select Corporate
environments, Visa increased flexibility in schedules,
encouraged individuals to collaborate with managers Recognition
to balance professional and personal obligations and
launched “Wellbeing Hours” to encourage schedule
flexibility at the end of the work week. • Gender-Equality Index (Bloomberg, 2023)
• Best Places to Work for LGBTQ+ Equality (Human Rights
As employees returned to offices in 2022, we used local
Campaign, 2022)
and national guidance and emergency and regulatory
requirements to implement global best practices. Since • Black Equity Index Inaugural Member (Coqual, 2022)
we began our return to office journey, we believe we have
• 100% on the Disability Equality Index & Best Place to
learned how to navigate the pandemic safely and are
Work for People with Disabilities (Disability Equality
evolving our flexible hybrid work strategy with a focus on
Index, 2022)
“the three C's"—collaboration, connection and community—
• Corporate Inclusion Index, 5-Star Rating for Employment
to foster a strong and rewarding culture within Visa.
and Governance (Hispanic Association on Corporate
Recognizing variations in work and collaboration around Responsibility, 2022)
the world and across functions, we provide select leaders
• Best Advance in Unique Learning Technology for Visa
with the flexibility to create hybrid plans that support
Voyagers program (Brandon Hall Group, 2022)
their individual teams. As part of these hybrid plans, most
• Training Top 100 APEX Award, #11 (Training
employees will be in the office at least 50 percent of the
Magazine, 2022)
time. We designed our updated approach to give our
employees flexibility balanced with the benefits of working • BEST Awards, #1 (Association for Talent
together in-person. Development, 2022)
In addition, Visa maintains an Ergonomics Program to
help employees create an environment in which they
can work comfortably and productively from anywhere.
22002222 EEnnvviirroonnmmeennttaall,, SSoocciiaall && GGoovveerrnnaannccee RReeppoorrtt || 4411
PROTECTING THE PLANET
Visa believes in the importance of helping to protect Visa aims to be among global corporate leaders in this decisive decade of action. Guiding us on our efforts are the following
our planet and natural resources and supporting climate-related goals and aspirations:
climate action. We strive to use our products,
Carbon neutral operations
services, network, expertise, brand and partnerships
to minimize the environmental footprint of our Maintain carbon neutrality of our operations (greenhouse gas emissions scopes 1 and 2 as well as the business
operations, inspire and empower sustainable travel and employee commuting components of scope 3).
commerce and support the global transition to a
Science-based interim targets
low-carbon economy.
Reduce absolute scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions 50 percent by FY30 from a FY20 base year. Reduce
Our approach includes:
absolute scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions 42 percent within the same timeframe.
• Sustainable Operations
• Sustainable Movement Net Zero target
• Sustainable Solutions Eliminate the footprint from our scopes 1, 2 and 3 emissions by 2040.
Climate positive company
Support positive climate action beyond our operational footprint by leveraging our products, services, network
and other resources.
Visa’s net zero emissions by 2040 goal aligns with global standards and includes efforts to engage with suppliers to abate a
significant portion of the greenhouse gas footprint of Visa’s purchased goods and services. In May 2022, the Science Based
Target Initiative (SBTi) approved Visa’s science-based targets at the 1.5 degree Celsius ambition level.
2022 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 43
Green Bond Sustainable Operations In 2022, progress included:
• Received formal approval of BREEAM certification at
In August 2020, Visa issued our inaugural $500 Our initiatives to deliver on our corporate goals for our U.K. sites in London, Basingstoke and Reading.
million green bond—believed to be the first green environmental stewardship and climate action begin • Began occupying our new regional headquarters
bond issued by a digital payments network. In with our efforts within Visa. We work to reduce the in Dubai, which followed the Dubai Green Building
alignment with our Green Bond Framework, environmental footprint from our business activities, Regulations and Specifications during construction.
we are using our Green Bond to finance the which primarily include data centers and offices, employee Initiated certification at our newly occupied space at
construction and operation of highly efficient commuting, business travel, corporate events and Visa’s New York City office.
buildings with a focus on energy and water purchased goods and services from our suppliers.
• Created solutions in our London Innovation Center to
efficiency improvements. As detailed in our 2022
reduce the power usage of office technology, including a
Green Bond Report, as of March 31, 2022, Visa has
solution designed to prompt low power standby mode
allocated $243.3 million thus far in eligible spend Greening Our Offices & Data Centers
as soon as possible after technology use.
on projects that meet the Eligibility Criteria in
Visa is committed to reducing the environmental impact In FY22, Visa’s data centers accounted for 66 percent of
accordance with the Use of Proceeds defined in
of our offices and data centers by focusing on green our total electricity consumption and remain an important
the Green Bond Framework. Examples of projects
building design and operation and managing energy and focus of our sustainable operations efforts. In 2022, we
financed by the Green Bond in 2022 include:
water use. Our approach includes obtaining the U.S. Green achieved year-over-year improvements in our data center
• Deploying a 1MW modular data center unit and Building Council’s Leadership in Energy and Environmental energy efficiency, measured by power usage effectiveness
replacing existing cooling infrastructure at our Design (LEED), BREEAM, Green Mark or equivalent (PUE). Globally, the PUE in our data centers has improved
central U.S. data center. certifications for the design, construction and build-out of by 20 percent since 2017.
• Obtaining LEED certification of our our office facilities. We use green building standards and
Our improvements were driven in part by:
53,000 square foot office in Bellevue, WA. guidelines to increase resource use efficiency within our
existing buildings. • Upgrading cooling infrastructure and updating servers.
• Entering into agreement with British Gas to
power Visa’s U.K. offices and data centers. As of September 30, 2022, Visa owned or leased 145 office • Piloting and evaluating innovations such as direct
expansion, dry mode cooling and immersion cooling
• Began occupying a new 79,000 square foot locations in 79 countries around the world, including three to improve our energy and/or water efficiency.
regional headquarters in Dubai, which followed global processing centers. At the end of 2022, nearly
• Implementing adiabatic free cooling at our U.K. data
the Dubai Green Building Regulations and 80 percent of Visa’s owned or leased square footage
center, which reduces the need for mechanical cooling
Specifications during construction. achieved or was pending green building certification— to chill water during colder months, decreasing power
up from approximately 75 percent in 2021. demand to approximately one-fifth of what it would
For more on these and other projects, please refer
otherwise be on cold days.
to our 2022 Green Bond Report.
• Using cold aisle containment at our U.K. data center
to optimize air flow, which can improve air flow
efficiency by up to 40 percent, reducing corresponding
energy needs.
2022 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 44
• Replacing existing cooling infrastructure at our central certificates (RECs). Visa also continues to champion the In 2022, Visa's Bangalore office, our largest in Asia by square
U.S. data center with two three-stage cooling towers broader corporate renewable energy movement, including footage, began procuring electricity from renewable
that are expected to provide nearly a 30 percent
through our membership in RE100 and the Clean Energy sources, accounting for almost 70 percent of electricity
reduction in annual electricity use associated with
Buyers Association. consumed and reducing the site's reliance on RECs.
the cooling system.
• Deploying a 1MW modular data center unit at our In 2021, Visa signed a multi-year agreement with While we have achieved our stated renewable electricity
central U.S. data center, part of a longer-term strategy MP2 Energy (now Shell Energy Solutions) to provide goal, our multi-year approach remains focused on
for capacity additions at this location; the modular data
100 percent renewable electricity for Visa’s largest data identifying opportunities to increase additionality to the
center unit has a PUE of 1.19, significantly lower than
center—accounting for about 45 percent of our total grid through investments and/or enrollments in renewable
Visa’s existing data centers.
global electricity usage—supporting renewable electricity electricity offerings, including through long-term renewable
generation coming online from new solar projects. electricity purchase agreements, while reducing our
Renewable Electricity
The agreement, which includes the procurement of purchase of unbundled RECs.
Visa continues to meet our goal (first announced in renewable electricity and renewable energy credits,
2018) of purchasing 100 percent renewable electricity deepens Visa’s commitment and investment in Virginia Travel & Events
for our offices and data centers through participation in over the next seven years and directly supports the Virginia
power purchase agreements, utility renewable energy Clean Economy Act, which is expected to create nearly We continue to identify and implement steps to reduce
programs and through the purchase of renewable energy 30,000 new solar jobs in the Commonwealth by 2030. the environmental footprint of our employee commuting,
business travel and corporate events.
Visa helps eligible employees reduce the emissions from
their commutes, including through providing subsidies
for public transit and bicycle commuting and access
VISA DATA CENTER POWER USAGE EFFECTIVENESS (PUE) — 2017-20221
to electric vehicle chargers in select locations in North
2.5 U.K. America. In 2022, we began developing a commuter survey
to have a better understanding of how employees are
1.84 U.S. – East
2 1.67 1.63 commuting to and from work.
1.56 1.52 U.S. – Central
1.48
1.5 Global To address emissions related to business travel, we focused
Weighted
Average on advancing the use of Sustainable Aviation Fuel (SAF) in
1
air travel by joining the United Airlines Eco-Skies Alliance
.5 in early FY22. Through the Alliance, we are reducing the
carbon emissions from our business travel on the airline by
0
helping to fund the green premium for SAF. This also aligns
2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022
with Visa’s commitment as a signatory of Clean Skies for
1. The average PUE value represents a weighted average, based on the reported PUE metrics and total energy consumption at each of our data center locations.
Tomorrow, a coalition of leaders in sustainable aviation.
2022 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 45
Employees Suppliers • 82 percent reported emissions reduction projects
resulting in an estimated 6 million metric tons of annual
Visa strives to inspire our employees around the world Visa believes in the importance of addressing the emissions
CO savings.
2
to be sustainability champions and advocates in the from our purchased goods and services, which make up
• 71 percent reported renewable energy use.
workplace, at home and in our communities. We do so over 90 percent of Visa’s scope 3 emissions as of the end
throughout the year by offering tips and suggestions for of FY22. • 75 percent reported initiatives to engage their
integrating sustainability into daily life through webinars, own suppliers.
Our efforts to engage suppliers include:
emails and videos.
In 2023, we plan to expand engagement through the
• Incorporating environmental sustainability expectations CDP Supply Chain program to our top 500 suppliers,
Central to our efforts is our annual global Visa Earth
in the Visa Supplier Code of Conduct (Supplier Code), representing approximately 85 percent of annual spend.
Month series of events held each April. Our 2022
which suppliers receive during the onboarding process.
campaign included:
• Participating in the CDP Supply Chain program, Our Results
• Speaker series: which focused on topics including
through which we engage our leading suppliers around
sustainable operations, mobility and sustainable major To measure and manage our environmental impact,
measuring their emissions footprints, setting targets,
sports events. beginning in 2008, Visa has conducted an annual global
reporting to the CDP and attributing their footprint back
environmental footprint assessment with support from
• Earth Month Eco-Challenges: enabling employees to Visa.
leading third-party firms. Each year, we measure our global
to calculate their personal carbon footprints and make
Since joining the CDP Supply Chain program in 2019,
energy and water use, waste production, landfill diversion
simple commitments to reduce their impact.
Visa has expanded outreach to suppliers who represent
and GHG emissions and we verify our GHG emissions
• Employee Sustainable Living Survey: through which approximately 80 percent of Visa’s emissions as calculated
through an independent third party to the limited
we identified the aspirations, barriers and areas of most by spend.
assurance level. Visa’s 2022 GHG Verification Statement
interest among our employees around greener living.
is publicly available on our website and included in the
Among Visa's suppliers who responded to our request
We also offer an ongoing sustainability learning path within to participate in the 2022 CDP Supply Chain program: Appendix of this report. We use international standards,
Visa University, our training and development platform. including the GHG Protocol, to measure and report
We designed the learning path to provide employees a • 88 percent of suppliers reported their operational GHG emissions.
emissions.
foundation in topics and solutions related to sustainability
and climate change. • 73 percent reported active targets, and 41 percent had
validated near-term SBTi targets.
89% reduction in scopes 1 & 2
GHG emissions since FY18.
2022 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 46
Energy & Greenhouse Gas Emissions
Around the world, momentum continues to accelerate behind the need to take urgent
OPERATIONAL EMISSIONS (MTCO₂e)
action on climate change and transition to a low-carbon economy. Visa is responding by
taking serious action to reduce our GHG emissions. 100,000 94,500 Scope 1
78,70079,500 80,60084,200
80,000 76,500 69,100 Scope 2
As a result of the efforts described in the previous section, Visa was able to maintain carbon 60,000 64,300 63,40060,100 59,800 Carbon offsets
neutrality across our operations, which we achieved for the first time in 2020. Operational 40,000
carbon neutrality includes the footprint from our scope 1, scope 2 and the employee 20,000 13,900 4,000 6,400
0
commuting/business travel components of scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions, and is
-20,000
-19,154
the result of ongoing energy efficiency initiatives, our transition to 100 percent renewable -40,000 -34,456
electricity and limited use of carbon offsets to cover our residual footprint. -60,000 -46,100
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022
Our carbon offsets portfolio spans regions in which we operate and includes projects such
as forest management in the U.S., reforestation in Uruguay, renewable energy generation
OPERATIONAL EMISSIONS RELATIVE TO 2009 (MTCO₂e)
in Turkey, China and India and clean cookstove initiatives in Kenya and Uganda.
In FY22, we used approximately 747,000 gigajoules (GJ) of energy from electricity, natural 0% A embs iso slu iot ne s
gas and other fuels. -20% MTCO₂e per
square foot
-40% MTCO2e per
employee
Performance highlights include:
-60% MTCO2e per
million dollar
• Energy intensity: While total energy use in FY22 increased compared to FY21 largely as a revenue
-80%
result of returning to pre-pandemic business operations, our energy intensity per square
-100%
foot has decreased by 9 percent compared to the pre-pandemic 2019. 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022
• Emissions: Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions, measured in absolute terms with a market-
based approach, were 6,400 metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent (MTCO₂e) in 2022,
an 89 percent reduction relative to FY18. SCOPE 3 EMISSIONS (MTCO₂e)
• Climate reporting and transparency: In 2022, Visa responded to the CDP Climate
600,000 Downstream leased assets
Change questionnaire for the 12th consecutive year and was named to the CDP A-List for 527,700
500,000 Employee commuting
the second time. Visa’s CDP response is available on the websites of Visa (Visa.com/esg) 409,200 403,900
400,000 Business travel
and CDP. 321,000 Waste generated in operations
300,000
Fuel- and energy-related activities
200,000
Purchased goods and services
100,000
0
2019 2020 2021 2022
2022 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 47
Water
We believe in the importance of protecting water as a shared resource, particularly in water-
TOTAL WATER USAGE (MILLION GALLONS)
constrained areas. Although as a payments technology company Visa’s business is not
water intensive, we do implement data-driven strategies to reduce the total water use at our
offices and data centers. In particular, our data centers are some of our largest water users, 100 94.4 Reclaimed
87.6 89.6 90.1
and we are working to improve water efficiency and reduce use at these sites by doing 82.6 82.1 79.5 Potable
80
the following: 18% 23% 71.6
25% 26%
• Utilizing reclaimed water at our eastern U.S. data center, our largest overall water user. 60 28% 30%
41%
This site received approximately 95 percent of its water in 2022 from a reclaimed water
46%
40
system, significantly reducing potable water withdrawal required at the site.
• Upgrading cooling towers at our central U.S. data center, Visa’s largest user of potable 20
water. This initiative is expected to reduce annual water use by nearly 35 percent
82% 77% 72% 75% 74% 70% 54% 59%
0
compared to the original system it is replacing.
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022
• Introducing programs to reduce water use at our U.K. data center, such as utilizing a
closed-loop water system that helps eliminate water waste and reduce overall demand.
In 2022, we used an estimated 46,820,000 gallons of potable water in our global portfolio.
CHANGE IN POTABLE WATER USE RELATIVE TO 2015
10% Gallons
In 2022, 41% of Visa’s total water usage
0% G sqa ull ao rn es
f
p oe or
t
came from reclaimed water. -10% G emall po ln os y ep ee r
-20% Gallons per
million dollar
revenue
-30%
Performance highlights include: -40%
• Water use per employee improved year-over-year from 2021, decreasing by about -50%
2 percent. -60%
-70%
• By facility type, almost 70 percent of potable water use occurred in our offices, while
over 30 percent occurred in our data centers, in which we use a significant amount -80%
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022
of reclaimed water.
• In 2022, over 40 percent of Visa’s total water usage came from reclaimed water.
2022 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 48
snollag
noillim
Waste Sustainable Movement
While not a major producer of solid waste, Visa continues to
reduce the amount of office waste we dispose of in landfills Beyond our own operations, Visa continues to expand our
each year. Visa works to reduce waste streams at our office initiatives toward becoming a climate positive company by
facilities and data centers through thoughtful design of our supporting the global movement toward more sustainable
spaces and kitchenettes, engaging with our food service commerce and consumption. Our approach includes the
providers, reducing single-use items and plastics and by following areas of focus:
engaging employees through education and awareness.
• Research & Insights: Supporting and/or conducting
In 2022, we achieved a landfill diversion rate of nearly research to understand barriers to and drivers of
50 percent, or 45 kg of waste diverted from landfill per sustainable living behaviors and the role that payments
employee.2 can play.
• Sustainable Behaviors: Supporting sustainable
Performance highlights include:
behaviors, such as in mobility and travel, on a
• Collected more detailed waste information from 20
global scale.
of our largest office facilities, including around waste
• Consumer Engagement: Participating in consumer
management procedures, waste-related trainings and
engagement initiatives to make sustainable living more
waste stream availability.
attractive, rewarding and attainable.
• Avoided printing more than 3 million total pages in
• Public Policy and Industry Engagement: Contributing
calendar year 2022 as part of the Visa Global Print Project
to the public policy arena as well as major public /
in 2022, resulting in an estimated cost savings of more
private sector convenings to advocate for sustainable
than $400,000.
commerce and climate action.
Research & Insights
WASTE BY DESTINATION
Visa’s approach to enabling the sustainable commerce
49% 29%
and living movement begins with our efforts to help the
Landfilled Composted broader payments and commerce ecosystem understand
the barriers to and drivers of sustainable living behaviors—
19% 3% particularly among consumers—and the opportunities for
Recycled/Reused Incinerated digital payments to support a low-carbon economy.
2. Diversion rate per employee is calculated based on the total amount of Visa’s operational waste that is diverted from the landfill and incineration facilities in the reporting year divided by the
total number of employees.
22002222 EEnnvviirroonnmmeennttaall,, SSoocciiaall && GGoovveerrnnaannccee RReeppoorrtt || 4499
Our 2022 highlights include: four roles that payment networks can play to bridge investigated the progress of 200 cities representing
• For the fourth year, Visa participated as a design partner the “opportunity gap” by enabling net zero solutions. 5 percent of the world population across digital
in GlobeScan’s Healthy and Sustainable Living Study, Read the CISL report, Payments for Net Zero: How the infrastructure, living and health, transportation and
which focused on consumer attitudes, opinions and payments industry can contribute to the transition to a other critical urban domains, as well as the level of
behaviors linked to healthier and more sustainable net zero economy, to learn more. transformation each city believed it required to meet
lifestyles across more than 30 markets. The 2022 study • Visa conducted and disseminated additional research in future urban demands. Tools developed from the
was conducted in spring 2022, with results published select markets regarding the intersection of consumers, study are available on ThoughtLab's Building a Future-
in fall 2022. sustainable living and payments accounts. Results were Ready City microsite.
• Visa collaborated with the Cambridge Institute for shared with clients and partners to inform sustainable The Visa Economic Empowerment Institute thought
Sustainability Leadership (CISL) to identify new payments offerings. leadership agenda continues to include digital payments
opportunities for electronic payments and networks to • Visa supported ThoughtLab on its worldwide and sustainability, sustainable travel and tourism,
support a sustainable future, with the results published benchmarking study to analyze how cities are future- sustainable urban mobility and sustainable e-commerce.
in our early FY22. As a result of this work, CISL identified proofing their urban environments. The study
Visa is working to bring digital
payments to citizens’ door-to-door
journeys to help reduce emissions
and address climate change.
22002222 EEnnvviirroonnmmeennttaall,, SSoocciiaall && GGoovveerrnnaannccee RReeppoorrtt || 5500
Sustainable Behaviors expansion of the JustCharge network of community EV a regenerative way to buy, re-use and share goods and
charging points. Visa served as the Headline Partner of services through activities like Resale, Repair, Rental, Refill,
To support the overall sustainable living movement, Visa
the global EV Summit 2022 for the second year running Return and Redistribute.
also continues to work in areas where we believe we can
to support a seamless EV charging experience. Visa
help enable specific sustainable behaviors, such as the As a strategic partner of the Ellen MacArthur Foundation, a
also served as a Platinum sponsor of CS Week, a utility
following examples: leading voice on the circular economy, Visa is a key enabler
education conference, to partner with utilities on how
in the payments industry striving to help accelerate the
EV charging is changing the way consumers use energy
Transit transition towards a more regenerative economy.
and the associated impact on their bills.
Visa is working to bring digital payments to citizens’
In CY22, we announced the Recommerce platform, which
door-to-door journeys to help reduce emissions and Sustainable Travel & Tourism
builds on our strategic partnership with the Ellen MacArthur
address climate change. Visa has partnered with transit
We continue our global efforts to help advance sustainable Foundation, including new consumer research, a digital
agencies to help launch more than 600 projects in cities
travel and tourism. In 2022, we continued our founding hub and a behavioral insights lab to focus on empowering
worldwide to support sustainable mobility through
partner role with Travalyst, a not-for-profit organization individuals to adopt more sustainable behaviors.
contactless ticketing and fare payment solutions.
founded by The Duke of Sussex together with Booking.
com, Skyscanner, Trip.com Group and Tripadvisor with
Consumer Engagement
Electric Vehicles
a mission to change travel, for good. Visa also served
Visa is supporting the global transition to electric vehicles as a member of the World Economic Forum (WEF) Visa believes that the transition to sustainable commerce
by partnering with participants in the Electric Vehicle Global Agenda Council for Sustainable Tourism, and in and sustainable behaviors requires participation in and
Charging (EVC) ecosystem to remove friction and 2022 contributed to the white paper How to Create the support of consumer engagement initiatives. Select
enhance the overall customer payment experience Sustainable Travel Products Customers Want, published examples of 2022 progress include:
at charging stations. by WEF and Accenture. We also continued the “Visa
• Serving as the presenting sponsor once again
for Athens” initiative— launched in 2021 to support the
In 2022, we launched a consultation with charging point of the Netflix Down to Earth with Zac Efron series,
Municipality of Athens in actions related to the preservation
manufacturers and industry leaders in Europe to identify a travel-related streaming series that explores healthy,
and regeneration of the city.
barriers and solutions to widespread acceptance of sustainable ways to live. Visa’s role also included
contactless and digital payments. Visa also joined CharIN, contributing to the consumer engagement and impact
Recommerce
an international charging initiative working with all parts platform associated with the series.
To accelerate the transition from a linear to circular
of the e-mobility value chain, as the first payments
economy, Visa is taking action to inspire individuals to • Continuing to serve as a Founding Partner of and
community member.
rethink the way they shop. Visa defines Recommerce as contributor to Brands for Good, an initiative of
Sustainable Brands focused on building a movement
In May 2022, Visa launched a partnership with JustPark to
among leading brands to make sustainable living more
boost EV adoption through rewarding use and supporting
attractive, rewarding and attainable.
2022 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 51
Global Policy & Industry Engagement Sustainable Solutions Data & Models
At Visa, we believe in the importance of supporting public Visa has developed data and models designed to support
policy dialogue and engagement as part of our approach Visa is supporting the broader sustainable commerce efforts to benchmark, segment and predict climate
to sustainable commerce, decarbonization and net zero. and living movement through our expanded portfolio of positive customers for both payments and other products.
In 2022, we: sustainability-focused products and solutions. We strive One such solution is Visa’s sustainability index, which is
to accelerate the transition to a low-carbon economy by designed to approximate the CO emissions associated
2
• Participated in the U.N.-hosted COP26 (U.K.) and
enabling cardholders, merchants, financial institutions with every purchase. Combined with external sources on
COP27 (Egypt) global climate convenings, spanning
and governments to adopt more sustainable choices. carbon emissions of various sectors and products, this
our fiscal and calendar year 2022. At these summits,
tool estimates the general carbon emissions intensity
Visa delegates participated in panel discussions on Our approach includes the following focus areas:
per purchase and helps individuals and businesses to
sustainable innovation, sustainable tourism and
better understand the impact of their transactions on
• Advisory Practice: Our cross-functional practice
corporate actions fighting climate change.
the environment.
supporting clients to navigate their current sustainability
• Participated in Climate Week, an annual climate-focused
strategy, develop their roadmap and design the business
convening hosted in conjunction with the United
case for embedding a planet-centric approach in their Product Solutions
Nations General Assembly.
organizations and for their customers.
• Continued our participation in the sustainability and As a global payments network, we believe we can play
• Data & Models: Helping clients adopt a data-driven
environmental-focused committees of our leading trade an important role in helping consumers and businesses
approach to sustainability through internally developed
associations, including the Energy and Environment shift to more sustainable behaviors through our efforts to
solutions, effective segmentation, predictive behavior
Coordinating Committee of the Business Roundtable, embed sustainable features in payment accounts. We are
capability and reward insights.
the Sustainable Finance Working Group of the Institute working to increase awareness, engagement and action
for International Finance and various working groups of • Product Solutions: Increasing sustainability awareness, for consumer and commercial card portfolios, including
the Information Technology Industry Council. engagement and actions for consumer and commercial merchant businesses. Specific offerings and partnership-
card portfolios, including merchant business. powered solutions include:
• Contributed to the programs and initiatives of other
leading coalitions, including as a member of the World
Advisory Practice Visa Eco Benefits Bundle
Business Council for Sustainable Development, a global,
CEO-led organization of over 200 leading businesses A package of sustainability-focused benefits for Visa
Through the Visa Consulting & Analytics team, Visa
working together to accelerate the transition to a account issuers, enabling their cardholders to understand
offers sustainability advisory services to support issuers
sustainable world. the impact of their spending on the environment and
and merchants with their sustainability strategy and
encourage sustainable consumption and behaviors.
• Supported the sustainable movement through Visa’s implementation. Services include helping clients develop
Features include a carbon footprint calculator (via ecolytiq
role on the NYSE Sustainability Advisory Council, their sustainability vision and strategy, conducting current
or Verrency) and personalized carbon offsetting education,
Sustainable Brands Advisory Council and the Adweek state assessments, value proposition development and
all localized to specific countries and customers.
Sustainability Council. shared value business case.
2022 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 52
ecolytiq
A software as a service product which is typically integrated into
a mobile banking app that builds awareness and engagement
with the customer to encourage more sustainable choices.
The solution analyzes payment data to form a picture of an
individual’s environmental footprint. The product is made up
of three modules:
• ecoAware provides users with carbon tracking on purchases
• ecoEngage enables users to drive behavior change
• ecoAction provides offsetting and investment opportunities
Cloverly
A climate-action technology platform that streamlines access to
verified, high-quality carbon credits worldwide. Cloverly is the
infrastructure for products to become climate-positive through
a scalable solution that enables businesses and consumers to
take direct action toward climate change. Cloverly joined Visa’s
Fintech Partner Connect program in CY22.
Plan A
A sustainability platform that empowers businesses to
self-manage their entire net-zero journey in one central hub.
The Software-as-a-Service solution automates emissions and
ESG data collection and impact analysis, providing individual
emissions profiles as well as granular insights in dynamic
dashboard overviews. To enable businesses to reduce their
operational and value chain emissions, the platform allows for
science-based net-zero target-setting and decarbonization
planning. Plan A joined Visa’s Fintech Partner Connect Program
in CY22.
2022 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 53
OPERATING RESPONSIBLY
Corporate Governance Mr. Kelly assumed the role of Executive Chairman committees on which the director sits. The Board also
effective February 1, 2023. The Board of Directors conducts an annual peer review, which is designed to
appointed Mr. McInerney to the Board effective upon assess individual director performance. The Nominating
Visa’s corporate governance practices help promote his transition to CEO. and Corporate Governance Committee, in conjunction
long-term value and strong Board and management with the Lead Independent Director, oversees the
accountability to our diverse set of stakeholders. Our Board John Lundgren continues to serve as our Lead Independent evaluation process.
of Directors oversees and monitors important governance Director. The Board periodically reviews the Board’s
issues, including risk management, board composition leadership structure and its appropriateness, given the Our current Board committees include Audit and Risk,
and refreshment, executive and Board compensation needs of the Board and the Company at such time. Compensation, Finance and Nominating and Corporate
and ESG matters. In 2022, Visa welcomed two new independent directors Governance. All four Board committees are composed
to the Board, Teri L. List and Kermit R. Crawford. solely of independent directors. Each committee operates
We regularly monitor our corporate governance policies pursuant to a written charter, available on the Investor
and practices to confirm we meet or exceed the As of February 1, 2023, Visa’s Board of Directors consists Relations page of our website.
requirements of applicable laws and the New York Stock of 11 members of which nine are independent.
Exchange's listing standards and that we are responsive
Visa’s Corporate Governance Guidelines establish various Board Education & Training
to investors. Visa’s corporate governance framework,
limits on our directors serving on publicly traded company
including our Corporate Governance Guidelines,
boards and audit committees. We limit our directors In addition to regular meetings of the Board and
exemplifies our commitment to these standards.
to serving on four publicly traded company boards its committees, in 2022 we offered several optional
(including Visa), or two for executive officers of publicly informational sessions for directors on key business
Board Structure traded companies (including Visa). The Board may grant topics. Visa also encourages directors to pursue ongoing
exceptions to established limits on a case-by-case basis. educational opportunities, including programs that
In late 2022, Visa announced the appointment of Ryan include ESG topics, and provides cost reimbursement
McInerney as Visa’s Chief Executive Officer (CEO), effective Our Board and each of its committees conducts an annual in accordance with our guidelines.
February 1, 2023, succeeding Alfred F. Kelly, Jr., who had evaluation facilitated by an independent third party that
served as the company’s CEO since 2016 and Chairman includes a qualitative assessment by each director of
since 2019. the performance of the Board and the committee or
2022 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 55
Board Diversity There are three primary principles that guide our
compensation program design and administration:
Visa strives to reflect the diversity of our global key • Pay for performance
constituencies, including clients, customers, employees, • Promote alignment with stakeholders’ interests
business partners and stockholders, in the makeup of • Attract, motivate and retain key talent
our Board. To support this objective, the Nominating and
We tie a substantial portion of our NEOs’ target annual
Corporate Governance Committee considers women and
compensation to the achievement of pre-established
candidates from underrepresented groups in the pool from
financial and non-financial objectives that support our
which the Committee considers director candidates. As of
business strategy, with a mix that balances short- and long-
February 1, 2023, Visa's overall board diversity (gender, race,
term performance goals. Further, our annual incentive plan
ethnicity) is 64 percent, with gender diversity specifically at
incorporates ESG metrics that are tied to the Company’s
27 percent and race and ethnicity diversity at 36 percent.
strategic objectives.
ESG-Linked Compensation Our FY22 annual incentive scorecard included, among
other topics, goals related to sustainability, social impact,
The compensation program for our named executive talent, technology, cybersecurity, risk and M&A integration.
officers (NEOs) helps us attract and retain key talent and
The same scorecard was used for determining the annual
promote performance that enhances stockholder value
funding for Visa’s broad-based employee bonus plan.
and drives long-term strategic outcomes, including broader
ESG efforts.
SNAPSHOT OF DIRECTORS1
Independence Tenure Diversity
Non-Independent Women Non-white
2 >9 yrs <4 yrs
3
3
82% 4.9 27% 36% 4
5
INDEPENDENT YRS AVERAGE GENDER RACE AND
7 ETHNICITY
8
3
9
Independent 4-9 yrs Men White
1. As of February 1, 2023.
22002222 EEnnvviirroonnmmeennttaall,, SSoocciiaall && GGoovveerrnnaannccee RReeppoorrtt || 5566
Ethics & Compliance Required trainings in FY22 included: interviews with industry leaders as well as daily challenges
to engage employees. In addition, Visa’s Chief Ethics and
• Anti-Money Laundering and Sanctions
Compliance Officer continued to host the “Doing the Right
At Visa, we understand the importance of doing business • Anti-Bribery Thing” series, featuring personal conversations with Visa
the right way. It’s a key part of how we make the world leaders on what ethics and integrity means to them and
• Anti-Trust and Competition Laws
better, together. We work to maintain the trust of our how the Visa Leadership Principles play out at work and in
• Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
stakeholders through our culture of honesty and integrity their lives. The purpose of these initiatives was to highlight
by regularly reviewing our ethics and compliance program. • Global Privacy Visa’s culture of ethical behavior and to allow all team
members to take part in activities promoting these values.
• Key Controls
Visa’s global Ethics and Compliance program provides
processes and controls to manage legal and regulatory • Workplace Discrimination & Harassment We continue to strengthen our approach to embed
risk, drive an ethical culture and empower the business ethics and compliance into enterprise-wide management
The Code includes a supplemental Code of Ethics for
to achieve Visa’s objectives legally and with integrity. processes and business leader performance scorecards.
Certain Executives and Financial Officers, which requires
The Office of the Chief Ethics & Compliance Officer,
senior officers to engage in honest and ethical conduct in
along with the business leadership, is responsible for Visa measures and monitors ethical behavior through the
performing their duties and provides guidelines for the
Visa’s global ethics and compliance program. use of Regional Scorecard metrics that have direct impact
ethical handling of conflicts of interest and reporting of
on performance rating decisions and associated bonus
unethical conduct.
Our commitment to ethics and compliance is captured of certain business leaders. Every quarter, our Regional
in our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (Code), which Ethics and Compliance Leaders are to review the status
Additionally, the Visa Supplier Code of Conduct and
applies to everyone working with or on behalf of Visa, of progress against agreed upon goals with the regional
Modern Slavery Act Transparency Statement further
including employees, contingent staff and the Board of president and country managers, and report at year-end
explain our expectations and values to suppliers.
Directors. Key updates to the Code in 2022 included adding on achievement of those goals to the Visa CEO.
For more, see Responsible Sourcing.
sections on Diversity, Equity and Inclusion; Accessibility
and Accommodations; and Modern Slavery. All staff are We maintain a confidential compliance hotline, operated
required to complete annual ethics and compliance by a third party, to allow anyone to share questions,
training, which helps us to sharpen our knowledge and skills concerns or comments online or by phone, 24 hours a day, In 2023, Visa was recognized
and make our actions and decisions reflect the Code. seven days a week. Additionally, our “Speak Up” culture
by the Ethisphere Institute
In 2022, Visa once again achieved a 100 percent completion aims to empower employees to report misconduct.
rate for all eligible Visa employees. In addition, in 2022, Our updated Global Ethical Manager Toolkit helps leaders
as one of the World’s Most
Visa launched an interactive microsite with data analytic engage in team discussions related to ethics.
capabilities, which allows employees to perform keyword Ethical Companies for the
Ethical behavior is an integral part of our culture at Visa.
searches and enhances navigability.
To emphasize this, in FY22, we held our Ethics in Action 11th consecutive year.
week, a full week of global activities for employees featuring
a mixture of panels, podcasts, interactive virtual games and
2022 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 57
Engaging with Through Visa University, we provide training and outreach expenditures. In the U.S., we disclose contributions made
programs to governments and policymakers around the by Visa’s Political Action Committee (PAC) in accordance
Governments
world to allow us to foster the exchange of ideas on legal with the requirements of the Federal Election Commission.
and economic aspects of digital financial services. Further, In 2023, Visa updated and published our global Political
Visa engages in strategic partnerships with a wide range of Participation, Lobbying and Contributions Policy (Policy).
Visa actively engages with governments, policymakers
local, national, international and multilateral organizations, The Policy aims to:
and other key stakeholders across the world to help shape
universities, think tanks and other policy organizations
the future of digital payments. Through our partnerships,
• Promote ethical and transparent political engagement
to share perspectives and contribute to policy dialogue
we find opportunities to drive digital transformation and
by Visa.
on the future of payments, small business enablement,
further enable access to financial services.
sustainability and digital equity and inclusion, among other • Ensure that Visa’s political spending enhances
Visa’s leadership, including participation in industry issues. For more on these engagements, please see the shareholder value.
advocacy events and proactive engagements, enables our Empowering People, Communities and Economies and
• Facilitate Visa’s compliance with applicable laws and
global government engagement team to showcase the the Protecting the Planet chapters of this report.
reporting requirements addressing political activity.
progress Visa is making to advance more secure payment
• Align Visa’s government engagement activities in
technologies and highlights the ongoing innovation in the
Transparent Political Involvement
support of Visa’s corporate purpose to uplift everyone,
payments ecosystem.
everywhere by being the best way to pay and be paid.
Visa is committed to transparency around our political
Our approach is designed to help policymakers understand
involvement. We publish an annual Visa Inc. Corporate
the payments industry, and underscores what Visa is
Political Contributions Report, which includes a listing
doing, both locally and globally to accelerate the growth
of all U.S. trade associations to which Visa pays annual
of electronic payments and promote digital equity
membership dues that are $25,000 or more, and, if
and inclusion.
applicable, the portion of dues that were used for political
Visa once again earned "Trendsetter" status on the 2022
CPA-Zicklin Index of Corporate Political Disclosure and
Accountability with a perfect score of 100.
22002222 EEnnvviirroonnmmeennttaall,, SSoocciiaall && GGoovveerrnnaannccee RReeppoorrtt || 5588
Tax Compliance At Visa, we seek to not only follow the letter of the law, When identifying new suppliers to work with Visa, we aim
but also to adhere to the spirit of tax laws. Visa aims to partner with suppliers that meet our business needs,
& Governance
to adhere to our values, honors our commitments align with our purpose, help drive progress toward our
and avoids activities that could adversely affect our diversity goals and share the same respect for human
reputation. Under our policies, we make tax planning rights, including those principles recognized in international
Relationships are at the heart of Visa’s business. We know
decisions throughout our global operations in a manner human rights standards such as the Universal Declaration
that trust must be continuously earned and are committed
that is consistent with Visa’s commercial business and of Human Rights. Suppliers’ approaches to human rights
to being a transparent and reliable partner in business and
economic activities. should be consistent with the UN Guiding Principles on
in engagement with governments and the communities
Business and Human Rights. Suppliers are expected to
we serve. Visa operates globally and seeks to comply with
Visa’s statement on tax compliance, governance and our
comply with all applicable legal requirements related to
applicable laws, regulations and requirements, including
effective income tax rate is available online at visa.com/esg
human rights.
those related to tax, around the world.
under Operating Responsibly.
In 2022, Visa continued to engage prospective and existing
A global team of tax professionals, in close coordination
suppliers to understand their current integration of various
with business units, manages tax affairs in every Visa
region. Everyone working for, or on behalf of, Visa shares a Responsible Sourcing ESG topics and plans to improve. We include responsible
sourcing questions regarding environmental, diversity,
responsibility to follow our Code of Business Conduct and
accessibility and social responsibility criteria in requests for
Ethics and work with integrity. Visa has a zero-tolerance
Beyond Visa operations, our commitment to operate proposals, information and quotations. We then evaluate
approach to tax evasion or the facilitation of tax evasion.
responsibly and sustainably extends to our suppliers and these criteria as part of the supplier selection process.
Tax oversight resides with the executive management business partners. In 2022, we continued to implement Additionally, in 2022, we hosted our second annual ESG
team, including relevant oversight committees, and the Visa Supplier Code of Conduct and plan to refresh supplier summit in Europe to further the conversation
ultimately the Board of Directors. The Senior Vice President, the Supplier Code in 2023. All Visa suppliers receive the around supply chain best practices.
Global Tax is responsible for the global management of tax Supplier Code as part of the onboarding process. The
To complement these efforts, we continue to partner with
risks, and provides updates directly to the Chief Financial Supplier Code is also publicly available on Visa’s website.
EcoVadis, a leading supply chain-focused ESG ratings
Officer and also at least annually to the Audit and Risk
Our global Supplier Code outlines our expectations in organization, to collect data and measure the ESG impact
Committee of the Board of Directors regarding corporate
areas including human rights, employment practices, in our supply chain.
tax strategy, risks to our business and effective tax rate.
environmental impact, supplier diversity, conflicts of interest
The Global Tax Leadership Team reports to the Senior Vice
In 2022, Visa increased its expectations for suppliers
and other aspects of responsible business. We reference
President, Global Tax and is responsible for implementing
in Europe by setting a goal that Visa suppliers should
the Supplier Code in our global governing agreements with
tax strategy in every region.
have a management system in place that covers the
suppliers and in our Global Sourcing Policy.
recommended EcoVadis key performance indicators
related to modern slavery. If a supplier does not meet
these expectations, remediation plans are required.
2022 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 59
Visa has also expanded its engagement with our top on a quarterly basis, identifying progress and opportunities In support of Visa’s growing presence in Atlanta, in
suppliers around climate change and other environmental for continuous improvement. In FY22, we exceeded our 2022 we partnered with the Georgia Minority Supplier
issues through membership in the CDP Supply Chain goals, including: Development Council to conduct a summit focused on
initiative. For more, please refer to the Protecting the Planet opportunities for small and diverse businesses to become
• Requesting diverse account teams for preferred
chapter of this report. supply chain partners and highlight Visa’s commitment
suppliers and partners.
to supplier diversity. The event included discussions
• Increasing the number of diverse suppliers in our with Visa employees on potential business projects and
Supplier Diversity2
network, and thereby increasing Visa spend with opportunities, as well as panels and speakers to engage
Expanding engagement with diverse suppliers is a these suppliers. the local business community.
business activity that can add value to our brand, provide • Requiring diverse sourcing options for spend
Also in 2022, Visa continued to expand our Supplier
a competitive advantage and reflect our customer base. across RFPs.
Diversity programs outside of North America, designing
We strive to add inclusion and diversity provisions in new
We encourage our prime non-diverse suppliers to and developing reporting criteria and qualifications based
sourcing agreements in North America operations and
establish relationships with, and commit a percentage on data availability. The expansion focused on small and
commit to working with qualified suppliers who fully meet
of expenditures to, diverse suppliers. Prime suppliers micro businesses owned by historically underrepresented
the criteria established in our Supplier Diversity Program.
participating in our Second-Tier Initiative report individuals. For example, an area of focus in South Africa
Visa partners with a third-party supplier to provide information and data on their use of small and was on women and the Broad Based Black Economic
up-to-date information on supplier diversity certifications diverse suppliers. Empowerment program.
for our suppliers, helping us to report more accurately with
Visa invests in tools and memberships with diverse
independently validated data.
supplier advocacy and certification organizations, including
As part of Visa’s Stand Together Initiative, we enhanced our the National Minority Supplier Development Council,
Supplier Diversity Program for the U.S. in 2022 and set goals Women’s Business Enterprise National Council, National
to increase spend with Tier 1 and Tier 2 diverse suppliers Gay & Lesbian Chamber of Commerce, Financial Services
and provide diverse sourcing options for 100 percent Roundtable for Supplier Diversity, Women's Business
of requests for proposals. Our progress on the preceding Enterprise Council West and the Western Regional Minority
goals is reported internally to Visa executive management Supplier Development Council.
2. For information on how Visa defines diverse suppliers, please refer to Supplier Diversity | Visa.
2022 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 60
Human Rights Employer Centre for Sport
We acknowledge and respect the human rights of each
& Human Rights
employee. Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
We seek to respect and, where possible, promote human
outlines our employee protections and freedoms,
rights across our company, operations and supply chain,
including: privacy, expression, association and maintaining
including standards identified in the Universal Declaration
As a sponsor of major sports bodies and events, Visa
a workplace safe from retaliation. Policies contributing
of Human Rights and the International Labour Organization
remains a proud founding supporter and Advisory
to the respect of human rights of our employees include:
Declaration on the Fundamental Principles and Rights
Council member of the Centre for Sport and Human
Harassment and Discrimination Policy, Safety, Health
at Work. Visa’s approach to respecting human rights is
Rights (CSHR).
and Environmental Policy, Whistleblower Policy and
informed by the United Nations Guiding Principles on
Non-Retaliation Policy. See Investing in Our People
Business and Human Rights (U.N. Guiding Principles). Launched in 2018, CSHR announced a strategic
for more information.
plan for the period 2021-2025. CSHR’s approach is
Our approach is led by the Chief Sustainability Officer in
rooted in engaging the sports ecosystem to promote
coordination with a cross-functional working group which Purchaser
international standards, including the U.N. Guiding
oversees our overall approach, including risk identification, We acknowledge and respect the human rights of Principles on Business and Human Rights. CSHR
mitigation and due diligence strategy. workers in our supply chain. Our Supplier Code outlines promotes a shared commitment to the Sporting
our expectations for suppliers including safe working Chance Principles and works to raise awareness, build
Our progress is shared with members of the Visa executive
conditions and respect of human rights. Each year, Visa capacity and create lasting value in the world of sport.
team and Board of Directors on a regular basis. The Board’s
publishes a Modern Slavery Act Transparency Statement,
Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee is
.
which is approved by our Board of Directors. In Europe,
responsible for providing human rights oversight as part
we are piloting a monitoring effort in partnership with
of its overarching ESG responsibility, as detailed in the
EcoVadis to verify that suppliers meet modern slavery-
Committee’s Charter.
related requirements. See Responsible Sourcing for
We completed our most recent triennial human rights more information.
impact assessment in 2020. The human rights impact
assessment is a global effort across Visa operations, E-Payments Enabler
conducted in accordance with the U.N. Guiding Principles. As financial crimes can support and contribute to human
Through the assessment, we seek to identify and review rights abuses such as human trafficking, we are committed
salient human rights risks resulting from our operations, to preventing illegal activities on our network. See
network, supply chain, partnerships and sponsorships. Our Transaction Integrity for more information.
next human rights impact assessment is planned for 2023.
Business Partner and Sponsor
The assessment informs our global human rights strategy,
We incorporate respect for human rights into the
which focuses on mitigating risks emanating from Visa’s
expectations of and engagement with our partnerships
role as a/an:
and sponsorships, including issues at the intersection of
sport and human rights.
2022 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 61
APPENDIX
Greenhouse Gas Emissions Verification Statement
Page 2 Page 3
VERIFICATION OPINION DECLARATION
 SW taR nI/ dW arB dC (S SD
co
G pere 3e )n house Gas Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS Reference Standard: Attestation:
To: The Stakeholders of Visa, Inc.  ISO 14064-3: Greenhouse gases -- Part 3: Specification with guidance for the validation and verification of
greenhouse gas statements
Apex Companies, LLC (Apex) was engaged to conduct an independent verification of the greenhouse gas (GHG) Level of Assurance and Qualifications:
ie nm foi rs msi ao tn ios n r e inp co lurt de ed d b wy itV hi is na t, h I en c s. c ( oV pi esa o) f f wor o t rh ke d ep se cri ro ibd e s dt a bt ee ld o wb .e low. This verification declaration applies to the related   L Ti hm isit e ved rification used a materiality threshold of ±5% for aggregate errors in sampled data for each of the T Pr re ov go rar mD o Mn aa ng ah gu e, rL ead Verifier SM ea nry io E r P. A ror jm ecs tt r Mon ag n- aF gri eb re rg, Technical Reviewer
The determination of the GHG emissions is the sole responsibility of Visa. Visa is responsible for the preparation and above indicators. Apex Companies, LLC Apex Companies, LLC
f ina dir e p pr ee ns de en nta t ti vo en r ifo icf at th ioe n G oH nG t hs et a ate cm cue rn at c yin oa f cc tho erd a Gn Hc Ge w ei mth i st sh ioe n c sr it re er pia o. r tA edp ,e x a’ ns ds o ol ne r te hs ep o un ns di eb ri ll yit iy n gw a ss y st to e mp sro v ai nd de GHG Verification Methodology: Pleasant Hill, CA Cleveland, Ohio
processes used to collect, analyze and review the information. Apex is responsible for expressing an opinion on the Evidence-gathering procedures included but were not limited to: February 10, 2023
G lesH sG e s xt ta et ne sm ive en it n b na as te ud re o , n ti mth ine g v ae nri dfic ea xti to en n. t V the ar nif i ic na atio rn e aa sc oti nv ait bie les la ep vp el li e od f ain s sa u rli am ni cte ed v l ee rv ife icl ao tf i oa ns .s urance verification are  Interviews with relevant personnel of Visa;
Boun dar Oie ps e o raf tt ioh ne a r l e Cp oo nr tt ri on lg company GHG emissions covered by the verification:   R R ree e vv v iei ie e www o o o f f f i n d V fo oic s rmu am ad te a ion t nata ur ay sn ee d dv i i td n oe f o dn r ec me tea p rt mir oo in nd eu s c y Ge s Hd te Gb my s e V mais in sa d s; i o m ne st ;h ao nd do logy for collection, aggregation, analysis and T a o pc f ah c rCis to yD rv d wPe ar hdi nf oii c sc me ca lt aw oio ysitn uh h rs aett h va re et ee qt am e u cre i cm rn eest sm, s oi e n f t n oc o tl u su th rd b ii sa un g tg s r tw e ath ie tt ee hm m oo e u ep n t ni tn a. t .i cWo cn ee e p cx to ip nnr ge s e oss n r e t a d t so sh ute h mr ee i ni rn e g, l e ais a n sp yer ro o ev f si d pthe oid s n st so it ba iV lt ie tis yma oe a rn n lt ia d b b yis il i y ts yoo u ole ntl oy o Cf uo rDr pPth a e i rn t b to oe r n d Ce e Df ri Pt t oo o f s rV a ti t os is a afy ni n yth oe t hte er rm s
 Worldwide  Audit of sample of data used by Visa to determine GHG emissions.
Types of GHGs: CO2, N2O, CH4, HFCs, PFCs
GHG Emissions Statement: Verification Opinion:
  SSS Sc c cc oo o op ppp ee ee 1 322:
:
( ( 6 L M, o4 ac1 rka0 et im to -Bnet - ar Bi sc a e t s do e )n :ds 0) :o m6f 0C e, tO 9 ri1 c2 9 e t oq m nu e siv t r oa ic fl e Ctn o Ot n 2s eo qf uC ivO a2 le e nq t u ivalent B aba os ve  ed : on i
h R
st
a
eh n
s
pe o
o
ntp rom tr
t
io
n
a bc gte
e
e Ss ers i
n
ta
a
a l
p
nlyn
r de
d ac
p
o rp
a
drr rr o (e
e
Sc c de ct id oa nu n par d ee
c
s ci 1s
o
c arno
d
non
a
dtd na u
2c
c ef )a ,t e wi ard nir t, e
dh
t p h Wtr he e er Rse e
IW
/i n Ws Rt an BIto
/
Ci Wo e Sn Bv Doi Cd f GSe tn h
D
rec e ee
G
G
n
Ht hh H
G
oa G ut
P
st eh
r
em oe
Gt
i oG s acsH soio G
l P
n
C
s re
oo
m d
tr
opai cs ota os
ra
i lo a
t
Cn en os d
A r
s pi cnt oca f ro ot ae r um tm
n
eta e
i
Vntn i agot
l
n us a; eh
n
a o
d
Cnw d hn
a in
Purchased Goods & Services: 369,170 metric tons of CO2 equivalent Accounting and Reporting Standard (Scope 3).
Capital Goods: 0 metric tons of CO2 equivalent It is our opinion that VISA has established appropriate systems for the collection, aggregation and analysis of
Fuel- and Energy-Related Activities: 6,083 metric tons of CO2 equivalent quantitative data for determination of these GHG emissions for the stated period and boundaries.
Waste Generated in Operations:1,003 metric tons of CO2 equivalent Statement of independence, impartiality and competence
Business Travel: 12,792 metric tons of CO2 equivalent Apex is an independent professional services company that specializes in Health, Safety, Social and Environmental
Employee Commuting: 14,891 metric tons of CO2 equivalent management services including assurance with over 30 years history in providing these services.
Data and information supporting the Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions statement were historical in nature. N reo q um ire em d b oe f r t ho isf t ah se s igve nr mifi ec na tt .i o n W t ee a cm on dh ua cs t ea d b thu is si n ve es rs if icre al ta ioti no n ins dh eip p ew ni dth e nV tli ys a a, ni dts toD i ore uc r t ko nrs o wo lr e dM ga en a thg ee rr es hb ae sy o bn ed e nt h na ot
Data and information supporting the Scope 3 GHG emissions statement were in some cases estimated rather conflict of interest.
than historical in nature. Apex has implemented a Code of Ethics across the business to maintain high ethical standards among staff in their
Period covered by GHG emissions verification: day-to-day business activities.
 October 1, 2021 to September 30, 2022 The verification team has extensive experience in conducting assurance over environmental, social, ethical and
Criteria against which verification conducted: health and safety information, systems and processes, has over 20 years combined experience in this field and an
 World Resources Institute (WRI)/World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) excellent understanding of Apex’s standard methodology for the verification of greenhouse gas emissions data.
Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (Scope 1 and 2)
WATER RESOURCES • ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES • INDUSTRIAL HYGIENE • SAFETY • CLIMATE CHANGE WATER RESOURCES • ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES • INDUSTRIAL HYGIENE • SAFETY • CLIMATE CHANGE WATER RESOURCES • ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES • INDUSTRIAL HYGIENE • SAFETY • CLIMATE CHANGE
Apex Companies, LLC • (800) 733-2739 • www.apexcos.com Apex Companies, LLC • (800) 733-2739 • www.apexcos.com Apex Companies, LLC • (800) 733-2739 • www.apexcos.com
2022 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 63
Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Index
Visa publicly discloses climate-related information in alignment with TCFD recommendations through our annual Form 10-K, Visa ESG Report, CDP Climate Change
response and other corporate disclosures.
TCFD Core Element TCFD Disclosure Requirement (Short) TCFD Disclosure Requirement (Complete) Disclosure
2023 Proxy Statement (pp. 18, 92)
Degree of board oversight (a) Describe the board’s oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities.
Governance 2022 CDP C1.1a, C1.1b
(b) Describe management’s role in assessing and managing climate-related risks
Management's role 2022 CDP C1.2a
and opportunities.
(a) Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities the organization has 2022 Annual Report (pp. 26-28)
Climate-related risks and opportunities
identified over the short, medium and long term. 2022 CDP C2.1a, C2.2a, C2.3b, C2.4b
Strategy (b) Describe the impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on the
Impacts of risks and opportunities 2022 CDP C3.1, C3.3, C3.4
organization’s businesses, strategy and financial planning.
(c) Describe the resilience of the organization’s strategy, taking into consideration
Resilience of the organization's strategy 2022 CDP C3.2a, C3.2b
different climate-related scenarios, including a 2°C-or-lower scenario.
(a) Describe the organization’s processes for identifying and assessing climate-
Climate risk identification process 2022 CDP C2.1a, C2.2, C2.2a
related risks.
Risk Management
Climate risk management process (b) Describe the organization’s processes for managing climate-related risks. 2022 CDP C2.2
Integration with other risk management (c) Describe how processes for identifying, assessing and managing climate-
2022 CDP C2.2
processes related risks are integrated into the organization’s overall risk management.
Protecting the Planet
(a) Disclose the metrics used by the organization to assess climate-related risks ESG Data Table
Identify risk-assessment metrics
and opportunities in line with its strategy and risk-management process. 2022 Green Bond Report (pp. 4, 8)
2022 CDP C4.3b, C6.1, C6.3, C6.5, C8.2h
Protecting the Planet
(b) Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2 and, if appropriate, Scope 3 greenhouse gas (GHG)
Identify GHG emissions ESG Data Table
emissions, and the related risks.
Metrics & Targets 2022 CDP C6.1, C6.3, C6.5
2022 Annual Report (p. 8)
2023 Proxy Statement (pp. 19, 56)
(c) Describe the targets used by the organization to manage climate-related risks Protecting the Planet
Identify targets and risk metrics
and opportunities and performance against targets. 2022 Green Bond Report (p. 2)
SBTi 'Companies Taking Action' website
2022 CDP C4.1a, C4.2c
2022 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 64
ESG Framework Map
We map relevant disclosures to help stakeholders assess our performance. Visa has reported in accordance with Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards for the period October 1, 2021
through September 30, 2022. Elements of the following GRI, Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) and World Economic Forum (WEF) metrics may be partially disclosed
and omissions are explained, where applicable.
General Disclosures
GRI Standard GRI GRI Disclosure SASB Code SASB Disclosure WEF Core Metric Location or Direct Response
Code
The Organization and its Reporting Practices
GRI 2 General 2-1 Organizational Corporate Profile, page 7; 2022 Annual Report: Item 2 Properties,
Disclosures 2021 details page 32
Visa Inc. (NYSE: V) is a publicly held corporation organized and
existing under the laws of the State of Delaware, headquartered
in San Francisco, CA.
2-2 Entities included in 2022 Annual Report: Table of Contents, page 2
the organization’s Visa Inc.
sustainability
reporting
2-3 Reporting period, The reporting period for Visa's annual ESG and financial reporting
frequency and is October 1, 2021—September 30, 2022.
contact point
Visa's 2021 ESG Report was published in September, 2022.
Please direct questions on this report or topics related to our
corporate responsibility disclosures to sustainability@visa.com.
2-4 Restatements Environmental data have been restated where applicable due
of information to new data management practices to improve consistency.
2-5 External We seek to assure report content through an internal review process,
assurance including CEO and senior executive oversight of subject matter
reviews and validation.
We also work with a third party to assure the following data: scope 1,
scope 2 and select scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions. Please see the
2022 GHG Emissions Verification Statement, page 2 for a description
of assurance standards used, level of assurance obtained and any
limitations of the assurance process, as well as a description of the
relationship between Visa and the assurance provider.
Activities and Workers
GRI 2 General 2-6 Activities, Operating Responsibly, page 54; Corporate Profile, page 7; 2022
Disclosures 2021 value chain and Annual Report: Business, pages 4-17
other business Visa is active in the Software IT Services sector as defined by the
relationships Global Industry Classification Standard (GICS).
2-7 Employees SASB TC-SI-330a.3 Percentage of gender and racial/ Diversity and ESG Data Table, page 76; 2023 Proxy Statement, page 9
ethnic group representation for inclusion (%)
Visa USA Inc. annually publishes an Employer Information Report
(1) management, (2) technical
(EEO-1 Report). The most recently available certified EEO-1,
staff, and (3) all other employees
for CY 2021, was posted on May 24, 2022.
2-8 Workers who are Visa does not report information related to workers who are
not employees not employees.
2022 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 65
General Disclosures
GRI Standard GRI GRI Disclosure SASB Code SASB Disclosure WEF Core Metric Location or Direct Response
Code
Governance
GRI 2 General 2-9 Governance Governance body Corporate Governance, page 55; 2023 Proxy Statement:
Disclosures 2021 structure and composition Corporate Governance, pages 10-18 and Committees of the
composition Board of Directors, pages 21-26
2-10 Nomination 2023 Proxy Statement: Process for Nomination of Director
and selection Candidates, page 27
of the highest
governance body
2-11 Chair of Board Structure, page 55
the highest
governance body
2-12 Role of the Our Environmental, Social and Governance Approach, page 8;
highest 2023 Proxy Statement: The Board of Directors’ Role in Risk
governance body Oversight, page 14
in overseeing the
management of
impacts
2-13 Delegation of Our Environmental, Social and Governance Approach, page 8
responsibility
for managing
impacts
2-14 Role of the 2023 Proxy Statement: Integrated Approach, page 18
highest
governance body
in sustainability
reporting
2-15 Conflicts of Visa Inc. Corporate Governance Guidelines
interest
2-16 Communication Visa Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, pages 11-13 and
of critical 2023 Proxy Statement: Communicating with the Board of
concerns Directors, page 16
2-17 Collective 2023 Proxy Statement: Summary of Director Qualifications and
knowledge of Experience and Director Nominee Biographies, pages 35-40
the highest
governance body
2-18 Evaluation of the 2023 Proxy Statement: Board of Director and Committee
performance Evaluations, page 11
of the highest
governance body
2022 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 66
General Disclosures
GRI Standard GRI GRI Disclosure SASB Code SASB Disclosure WEF Core Metric Location or Direct Response
Code
Governance (Cont.)
GRI 2 General 2-19 Remuneration 2023 Proxy Statement: Compensation of Non-Employee
Disclosures 2021 policies Directors, pages 29-33 and Executive Compensation, pages
68-84
2-20 Process to 2023 Proxy Statement: Compensation Discussion and Analysis,
determine pages 45-67
remuneration
2-21 Annual total Wage level (%) 2023 Proxy Statement: CEO Pay Ratio, page 85
compensation For our last completed fiscal year ended September 30, 2022,
ratio the ratio of the annual total compensation of our CEO to the
median of the annual total compensation of our employees,
excluding our CEO, is 184:1.
Strategy, Policies and Practices
GRI 2 General 2-22 Statement on Setting purpose Letter from the Chief Executive Officer, page 1
Disclosures 2021 sustainable
development
strategy
2-23 Policy Visa Modern Slavery Transparency Statement, Visa Code of
commitments Business Conduct and Ethics and Visa Supplier Code of Conduct
2-24 Embedding Operating Responsibly, page 54;
policy Human Rights, page 61
commitments
2-25 Processes to Visa Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, pages 11-13 and 2023
remediate Proxy Statement: Communicating with the Board of Directors,
negative page 16
impacts
2-26 Mechanisms for Protected ethics Ethics & Compliance, page 57
seeking advice advice and reporting Visa’s Confidential Compliance Hotline, operated by a third
and raising mechanisms party, is available in multiple languages, and online or by phone,
concerns 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
2-27 Compliance 2022 Annual Report: Note 20—Legal Matters, pages 105-112
with laws and
regulations
2-28 Membership Relevant Memberships, page 9
associations
2022 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 67
General Disclosures
GRI Standard GRI GRI Disclosure SASB Code SASB Disclosure WEF Core Metric Location or Direct Response
Code
Stakeholder Engagement
GRI 2 General 2-29 Approach to Stakeholder Engagement, page 8; Our Company, page 6
Disclosures 2021 stakeholder
engagement
2-30 Collective Visa does not report the percentage total of employees covered
bargaining by collective bargaining agreements.
agreements
TC-SI-550a.2 Description of business Integrating risk and 2022 Annual Report: Risk Factors, pages 17-31
continuity risks related to opportunity into
disruptions of operations business process
Material Topics
GRI 3: Material 3-1 Process to Material issues Our Environmental, Social and Governance Approach, page 8
Topics 2021 determine impacting
material topics stakeholders
3-2 List of material Material issues 2023 Proxy Statement, page 19
topics impacting
stakeholders
2022 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 68
Topic-Specific Disclosures
GRI Standard GRI GRI Disclosure SASB Code SASB Disclosure WEF Core Metric Location or Direct Response
Code
Employee Wellbeing, Employee Safety & Security
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of Employee Wellbeing, page 40;
Topics 2021 material topics Employee Safety & Security, page 40
GRI 403: 403-3 Occupational Employee Safety & Security, page 40
Occupational Health health services
and Safety 2018
403-5 Worker training Employee Safety & Security, page 40
on occupational
health and safety
403-6 Promotion of Health and Employee Wellbeing, page 40;
worker health safety (%) Employee Safety & Security, page 40
403-7 Prevention and Employee Wellbeing, page 40;
mitigation of Employee Safety & Security, page 40
occupational
health and
safety impacts
directly linked
by business
relationships
Employee Engagement
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of Employee Talent, Growth & Learning, page 36;
Topics 2021 material topics Employee Engagement, page 38
GRI 404: Training 404-3 Percentage Employee Talent, Growth & Learning, page 36
and Education 2016 of employees
receiving regular
performance
and career
development
reviews
TC-SI-330a.2 Employee engagement as a Employee Engagement, page 38
percentage
2022 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 69
Topic-Specific Disclosures
GRI Standard GRI GRI Disclosure SASB Code SASB Disclosure WEF Core Metric Location or Direct Response
Code
Inclusion & Diversity
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of Inclusion & Diversity, page 31
Topics 2021 material topics
GRI 405: Diversity 405-1 Diversity of TC-SI-330a.3 Percentage of gender and racial/ Diversity and Inclusion & Diversity, page 31;
and Equal governance ethnic group representation for inclusion (%) Snapshot of Directors, page 56
Opportunity 2016 bodies and (1) management, (2) technical Visa USA Inc. annually publishes an Employer Information
employees staff, and (3) all other employees Report (EEO-1 Report).
405-2 Ratio of basic Pay equality (%) Pay Equity, page 35
salary and
At Visa, men and women earn the same pay for the same work
remuneration of
globally, and the same is true for historically underrepresented
women to men
employees and their white peers in the U.S.
Employee Talent, Growth & Learning
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of Employee Talent, Growth & Learning, page 36
Topics 2021 material topics
GRI 404: Training 404-1 Average hours of Training provided (#) ESG Data Tables, page 76
and Education 2016 training per year In 2022 on average, Visa employees participated in 17 hours of
per employee training.
404-2 Programs for Employee Talent, Growth & Learning, page 36
upgrading
employee skills
and transition
assistance
programs
Visa Total Rewards
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of Visa Total Rewards, page 39
Topics 2021 material topics
GRI 401: 401-2 Benefits Visa Total Rewards, page 39
Employment 2016 provided
to full-time
employees that
are not provided
to temporary
or part-time
employees
2022 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 70
Topic-Specific Disclosures
GRI Standard GRI GRI Disclosure SASB Code SASB Disclosure WEF Core Metric Location or Direct Response
Code
Empowering Small & Micro Businesses, Empowering People
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of Empowering Small & Micro Businesses, page 11;
Topics 2021 material topics Empowering People, page 14
GRI 203: Indirect 203-2 Significant Empowering Small & Micro Businesses, page 11;
Economic Impacts indirect Empowering People, page 14;
2016 economic Sustainable Movement, page 49
impacts
Empowering Communities
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of Empowering Communities, page 18
Topics 2021 material topics
GRI 413: Local 413-1 Operations with Empowering Communities, page 18
Communities 2016 local community
engagement,
impact
assessments, and
development
programs
Payments Security, Transaction Integrity
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of Payments Security, page 23;
Topics 2021 material topics Transaction Integrity, page 29
FN-CF-230a.3 Description of approach to Payments Security, page 23
identifying and addressing data
security risks
Cybersecurity
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of Cybersecurity, page 24
Topics 2021 material topics
TC-SI-230a.2 Description of approach to Cybersecurity, page 24
identifying and addressing data
security risks, including use
of third-party cybersecurity
standards
2022 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 71
Topic-Specific Disclosures
GRI Standard GRI GRI Disclosure SASB Code SASB Disclosure WEF Core Metric Location or Direct Response
Code
Data Privacy, Responsible Data Use
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of Data Privacy, page 27;
Topics 2021 material topics Responsible Data Use, page 26
GRI 418: Customer 418-1 Substantiated A material breach of Visa’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
Privacy 2016 complaints would be disclosed in accordance with SEC rules. Visa does
concerning not disclose non-material breaches of our Code of Business
breaches of Conduct and Ethics.
customer privacy
and losses of
customer data
TC-SI-220a.1 Description of policies and Responsible Data Use, page 26
practices relating to behavioral
advertising and user privacy,
Number of users whose
information is used for secondary
purposes
Sustainable Operations
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of Protecting the Planet, page 42
Topics 2021 material topics
GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-1 Energy TC-SI-130a.1 (1) Total energy consumed (GJ) Energy & Greenhouse Gas Emissions, page 47;
consumption (2) Percentage grid electricity ESG Data Tables, page 76
within the
(3) Percentage renewable Visa annually responds to the CDP Climate Change
organization
questionnaire. See Visa's CDP responses for additional
energy and emissions information.
302-2 Energy TC-SI-130a.1 (1) Total energy consumed (GJ) Energy & Greenhouse Gas Emissions, page 47;
consumption (2) Percentage grid electricity ESG Data Tables, page 76
outside of the
(3) Percentage renewable
organization
302-4 Reduction Energy & Greenhouse Gas Emissions, page 47
of energy
consumption
GRI 303: Water and 303-3 Water withdrawal TC-SI-130a.2 (1) Total water withdrawn Water consumption Water, page 48;
Effluents 2018 (2) Total water consumed, and withdrawal in ESG Data Tables, page 76
percentage of each in regions water-stressed areas Water withdrawal data is collected directly from facilities
with High or Extremely High that Visa operates (owned or leased) as part of the annual
Baseline Water Stress environmental inventory process. Visa then determines areas of
high or extremely high water stress using WRI’s Aqueduct Water
Risk Atlas. 41 percent of Visa's water use occurs in an area of high
or extremely high baseline water stress. This metric does not
include the reclaimed water that is used at Visa’s data center
in the Eastern U.S.
2022 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 72
Topic-Specific Disclosures
GRI Standard GRI GRI Disclosure SASB Code SASB Disclosure WEF Core Metric Location or Direct Response
Code
Sustainable Operations (Cont.)
GRI 305: Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Energy & Greenhouse Gas Emissions, page 47;
2016 GHG emissions ESG Data Tables, page 76
Visa annually responds to the CDP Climate Change
questionnaire. See Visa's CDP responses for additional energy
and emissions information.
305-2 Energy indirect GHG emissions Energy & Greenhouse Gas Emissions, page 47;
(Scope 2) GHG ESG Data Tables, page 76
emissions
Visa annually responds to the CDP Climate Change
questionnaire. See Visa's CDP responses for additional energy
and emissions information.
305-3 Other indirect GHG emissions Energy & Greenhouse Gas Emissions, page 47;
(Scope 3) GHG ESG Data Tables, page 76
emissions
Visa annually responds to the CDP Climate Change
questionnaire. See Visa's CDP responses for additional energy
and emissions information.
305-4 GHG emissions Energy & Greenhouse Gas Emissions, page 47;
intensity ESG Data Tables, page 76
Visa annually responds to the CDP Climate Change
questionnaire. See Visa's CDP responses for additional energy
and emissions information.
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Energy & Greenhouse Gas Emissions, page 47;
GHG emissions ESG Data Tables, page 76
Visa annually responds to the CDP Climate Change
questionnaire. See Visa's CDP responses for additional energy
and emissions information.
GRI 306: Waste 2020 306-3 Waste generated Waste, page 49;
ESG Data Tables, page 76
SASB TC-SI-130a.3 Discussion of the integration of Greening our Offices & Data Centers, page 44
environmental considerations
into strategic planning for data
center needs
Sustainable Solutions, Sustainable Movement
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of Sustainable Solutions, page 52;
Topics 2021 material topics Sustainable Movement, page 49
GRI 203: Indirect 203-2 Significant Empowering Small & Micro Businesses, page 11;
Economic Impacts indirect Sustainable Movement, page 49
2016 economic
impacts
2022 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 73
Topic-Specific Disclosures
GRI Standard GRI GRI Disclosure SASB Code SASB Disclosure WEF Core Metric Location or Direct Response
Code
Corporate Governance
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of Corporate Governance, page 55
Topics 2021 material topics
GRI 405: Diversity 405-1 Diversity of Inclusion & Diversity, page 31;
and Equal governance Snapshot of Directors, page 56
Opportunity 2016 bodies and
employees
Ethics & Compliance
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of Ethics & Compliance, page 57
Topics 2021 material topics
GRI 205: Anti- 205-1 Operations Ethics & Compliance, page 57
Corruption 2016 assessed for
risks related to
corruption
205-2 Communication Anti-corruption Ethics & Compliance, page 57
and training
about anti-
corruption
policies and
procedures
GRI 206: Anti- 206-1 Legal actions for TC-SI-520a.1 Total amount of monetary losses 2022 Annual Report: Legal and Regulatory Matters, page 48, and
Competitive anti-competitive as a result of legal proceedings Note 20—Legal Matters, pages 105-112
Behavior 2016 behavior, associated with anticompetitive
anti-trust, and behavior regulations
monopoly
practices
Engaging with Governments, Tax Compliance & Governance
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of Engaging with Governments, page 58;
Topics 2021 material topics Tax Compliance & Governance page 59
GRI 207: Tax 2019 207-1 Approach to tax Total tax paid Tax Compliance & Governance page 59;
2022 Annual Report, pages 36-38, page 43 and pages 48-49
2022 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 74
Topic-Specific Disclosures
GRI Standard GRI GRI Disclosure SASB Code SASB Disclosure WEF Core Metric Location or Direct Response
Code
Responsible Sourcing
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of Responsible Sourcing, page 59
Topics 2021 material topics
GRI 308: Supplier 308-1 New suppliers Visa does not report the number of new suppliers
Environmental that were screened using environmental criteria.
Assessment 2016 screened using
environmental
criteria
Other Disclosures
GRI 201: Economic 201-1 Direct economic Economic Corporate Profile, page 7
Performance 2016 value generated contribution 2022 Annual Report: Year-End Financial Highlights,
and distributed page 2 and Management's Discussion of Financial
Condition, page 34
Financial investment 2022 Annual Report: Fiscal Year 2022 Key Statistics,
contribution page 5 and Liquidity and Capital Resources, pages
43-47
Total R&D Visa does not report total costs related to research
expenses ($) and development.
2022 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 75
ESG Data Table
Workforce Demographics1
Description Unit FY 2020 FY 2021 FY 2022
Total number of employees (approx.) Number 20,500 21,500 26,500
Workforce Diversity
Gender in Global workforce
Female % 41 42 42
Male % 59 58 58
Gender in U.S. Workforce
Female % 41 42 44
Male % 59 58 56
Ethnicities in U.S. Workforce2
Asian % 42 41 41
Black or African American % 6 7 8
Hispanic or Latino % 11 12 12
White % 38 37 36
Others3 % 3 3 3
Gender in Global Leadership4
Female % 34 35 36
Male % 66 65 64
Gender in U.S. Leadership4
Female % 34 35 36
Male % 66 65 64
Ethnicities in U.S. Leadership2,4
Asian % 19 20 18
Black or African American % 4 6 7
Hispanic or Latino % 12 12 13
White % 63 59 60
Others3 % 2 2 2
1. Throughout Workforce Demographics, unless otherwise noted, employee totals include full- and part-time employees, exclude interns and those on a severance notice period or long-term disability leave
and are as of September 30 of the relevant fiscal year. Ratios may not add up to 100% due to rounding.
2. Ethnicity data does not include employees who choose not to disclose or leave the field blank.
3. Others defined as American Indian/Alaska Native, Native Hawaiian/Other Pacific Islander, and two or more races.
4. Leadership defined as Vice President and above.
2022 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 76
Workforce Demographics1
Description Unit FY 2020 FY 2021 FY 2022
Retention
Voluntary Attrition in Global Workforce5
Female % 38
Male % 62
Voluntary Attrition in U.S. Workforce2,6
Asian % 47
Black or African American % 8
Hispanic or Latino % 11
White % 31
Others3 % 3
Recruiting (Interview Candidates)7
Global Recruiting8
Female % 38
Male % 62
U.S. Recruiting9
Asian % 55
Black or African American % 10
Hispanic or Latino % 10
White % 21
Others3 % 3
External Hiring
Global External Hiring10
Female % 42
Male % 58
U.S. External Hiring11
Asian % 44
Black or African American % 12
Hispanic or Latino % 13
White % 28
Others3 % 3
5. Ratio of voluntary leavers by gender.
6. Ratio of U.S.-based voluntary leavers by ethnicity, self-identified population.
7. A significant portion of interview candidates do not disclose their gender or, in the U.S., ethnicity. This data includes only those who have self-disclosed.
8. Ratio of external interview candidates by gender, self-identified population.
9. Ratio of U.S.-based external interview candidates by ethnicity, self-identified population. 2022 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 77
10. Ratio of external hires by gender, excluding employees who joined Visa as part of an acquisition, self-identified population.
11. Ratio of U.S.-based external hires by ethnicity, excluding employees who joined Visa as part of an acquisition, self-identified population.
Workforce Demographics1
Description Unit FY 2020 FY 2021 FY 2022
Internal Mobility12
Global Internal Mobility13
Female % 44
Male % 56
U.S. Internal Mobility14
Asian % 43
Black or African American % 6
Hispanic or Latino % 13
White % 34
Others3 % 4
Other Social Metrics
Employee Training
Average hours of training per employee Hours/employee 13 12 17
Employees engaged in optional learning activities % 96 86 89
Environmental Metrics
Energy consumption
Total energy consumption GJ 704,000 646,000 747,000
Total energy consumption from grid electricity GJ 623,000 591,000 643,000
Percent total energy consumed from grid electricity % 88 91 86
Total energy consumed from renewable sources GJ 546,000 591,000 643,000
Energy intensity (Energy per FTE) GJ/FTE 34 30 28
Global average power usage effectiveness (PUE) 1.56 1.52 1.48
Percentage of owned or leased square
% 70 75 78
footage that is green building certified15
12. Includes lateral movement (position changes with no job level changes) and promotions ( job level elevations).
13. Ratio of internal mobility by gender, self-identified population.
14. Ratio of U.S.-based internal mobility by ethnicity, self-identified population.
15. Visa’s percentage of owned or leased square footage that is green building certified includes locations that are either certified or pending certification, including LEED, BREEAM, GreenMark and various regional green building certification frameworks.
2022 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 78
Environmental Metrics
Description Unit FY 2020 FY 2021 FY 2022
Greenhouse Gas Emissions
Total scope 1 & 2 GHG emissions16 MTCO2e 13,900 4,000 6,400
Total scope 1 GHG emissions MTCO2e 5,100 4,000 6,400
Total scope 2 GHG emissions—location based emissions MTCO2e 66,400 59,200 60,900
Total scope 2 GHG emissions—market based emissions MTCO2e 8,800 0 0
Percentage difference in scope 1 & 2 GHG emissions in comparison
% -77 -93 -89
to FY18 baseline16
Emissions intensity (scope 1 & 2 per FTE)16 MTCO2e /FTE 0.7 0.2 0.2
Total scope 3 GHG emissions MTCO2e 409,200 321,000 403,900
Scope 3 purchased goods and services MTCO2e 369,900 302,200 369,200
Scope 3 business travel MTCO2e 18,600 1,300 12,800
Scope 3 employee commuting MTCO2e 16,600 12,800 14,900
Other categories MTCO2e 4,100 4,700 7,000
Carbon offsets MTCO2e -46,100 -19,154 -34,456
Water Withdrawal
Total water withdrawal ML 311 271 301
Potable water withdrawal ML 217 147 177
Reclaimed water withdrawal ML 94 124 124
Total water withdrawal in regions with High or Extremely High Baseline
ML 71 65 72
Water Stress17
Total water withdrawal in regions with High or Extremely High Baseline
% 33 44 41
Water Stress17
Waste Management
Waste generated MT 3,550 1,140 2,500
Landfill diversion rate18 % 51 43 48
Waste recycled/reused MT 1,040 230 490
Waste composted19 MT 760 260 720
Waste incinerated MT 130 50 80
Waste sent to landfill MT 1,620 600 1,220
16. All combined Scope 1 & 2 GHG emissions metrics are representative of Scope 1 & Scope 2 market-based emissions.
17. Disclosed values do not include Visa’s reclaimed water usage. High or Extremely High Baseline Water Stress is determined using World Resources Institute Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas.
18. Consistent with the ZWIA definition, the landfill diversion rate does not include waste that is incinerated.
19. Composted waste includes waste that was reported as being sent to compost as well as anaerobic digestion.
2022 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 79
visa.com/esg
This report was printed on a plate-less, digital offset press using recycled paper certified by the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC).
All electricity used to produce it has been offset 100% with wind energy credits procured from a Midwest-based wind farm. ©2023 Visa. All rights reserved.
2022 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 80
