2021 Environmental, Social & Governance Report
Contents
Letter from our Chairman and CEO 1 Securing Commerce & Protecting Customers Protecting the Planet
FY21 Visa ESG Performance Highlights 2
Payments Security 17 Sustainable Operations 36
About this Report 3
Cybersecurity at Visa 19 Sustainable Commerce 41
Data Privacy 20 Alignment with TCFD 43
Our Company Responsible Data Use 21
Corporate Profile 5 Operating Responsibly
Transaction Integrity 22
Corporate Governance 45
Our Environmental, Social &
Governance Approach 6
Investing in Our People Ethics & Compliance 46
Supporting the United Nations Inclusion & Diversity 24 Engaging with Governments 47
Sustainable Development Goals 8
Employee Learning & Development 28 Tax Compliance & Governance 48
Empowering People, Communities & Economies Employee Engagement 30 Responsible Sourcing 48
Small & Micro Business 10 Employee Wellbeing 31 Human Rights 49
Digital Equity & Inclusion 12 Employee Benefits 32
Appendix
Community Support 13 Employee Safety 33
GHG Emissions Verification Statement 52
ESG Framework Map 53
2021 Environmental, Social & Governance Report
At Visa, digital payments is our business. With studies public transit systems and electric vehicle charging
showing that even a small increase in the rate of digital networks and launching the Visa Eco Benefits bundle
adoption can have an outsized influence on a country’s to help Visa cardholders better understand the
GDP—particularly developing countries—we are leaning environmental impact of their day-to-day payments.
into our strengths, digitally enabling communities around
These accomplishments are grounded in our commitment
the world. We have made great strides to bring the power
to run our company ethically, responsibly and sustainably.
of digital payments to a growing number of small and micro
This, together with strong, independent governance,
businesses. We’ve also invested in improving digital literacy
contributes to our ability to be a leader in our industry in
and financial education in communities across our regions
environmental, social and governance (ESG) performance.
through initiatives including Practical Money Skills, which
We are proud to be recognized for our efforts, including our
reached over 3.2 million people and was offered in 48
continued inclusion in the Dow Jones Sustainability North
countries and 19 languages in 2021.
America Index and once again being named to the World’s
To help ensure the digital economy is a safe and convenient Most Ethical Companies and Most JUST Companies lists.
Letter from our place for businesses of all sizes to operate, we continue
As I reflect on the results across our ESG areas of focus, I
Chairman and CEO to invest in the security of our network and the broader
recognize that, although we have done much good for
ecosystem, including our investment of over $9 billion
The past few years have accelerated change in many the world, much remains to be done. The work ahead
in fraud protection over the past five years. In 2021, Visa’s
facets of our lives—how we work and do business, how is challenging, but I believe we have the best and the
security efforts contributed to preventing $26 billion in
we communicate and what we prioritize and value. brightest talent in payments. As we continue to live out our
fraud-related losses.
They have also sparked a renewed urgency to tackle purpose, the positive impact we can make only grows.
the problems facing society on a global scale, including Within Visa, we continue to focus on enhancing the talent
In the following pages, I invite you to learn more about
the 1.4 billion individuals currently left out of the formal experience for underrepresented groups. In the United States,
the work we do, day in and day out, to advance a more
financial system, the continuing effects of a lingering we made progress toward our Stand Together goals, including
prosperous and sustainable future for all.
pandemic and the real world consequences of our goals to increase underrepresented communities within
climate change. our workforce. We also announced our Black Scholars and
Sincerely,
Jobs program — a scholarship, mentorship, internship and job
There is no overstating the seriousness of the challenges
placement program aimed at supporting a pipeline of diverse
before us. Urgent problems demand urgent solutions.
future leaders in the business and technology sectors.
As global citizens, we at Visa are committed to making
a positive impact in the world through living out our Building on our achievements in sustainable operations —
Alfred F. Kelly, Jr.
purpose: to uplift everyone, everywhere by being 100% renewable electricity use and carbon neutral operations
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Visa
the best way to pay and be paid. We strive to do this — we continue to work toward a more sustainable economy.
in our efforts to empower small businesses and local We are expanding our commercial offerings that help our
economies, secure the channels of commerce, protect clients and their customers access sustainable payment
the planet, invest in and diversify our workforce, and features and shift towards more sustainable behaviors—
operate ethically, responsibly and sustainably. including through expanding digital payments acceptance in
2021 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 1
FY21 Visa ESG Performance Highlights
Our ESG Strategy
Helps us deliver on our purpose: uplift everyone, everywhere by being the best way to pay and be paid
Empowering People,
Securing Commerce &
Communities & Economies
Protecting Customers
30.7M $26B
SMBs digitally enabled toward 50 million goal by 20231 of fraud losses prevented by Visa Advanced
Authorization and Visa Risk Manager
8.5K
$9B
startups from 100 countries in Visa Everywhere Initiative
invested over past five years to boost cybersecurity and reduce fraud
3.2M
$0.07
people reached by Visa Practical Money Skills – offered
in 48 countries and 19 languages historically low fraud rate for every $100 transacted on Visa’s network
Investing in Our People Operating Responsibly Protecting the Planet
64%
Equal pay Carbon neutral
among men and women for the same work Visa Board diversity for gender, achieved for operations
race, ethnicity dimensions
100%
21K 100%
completion by eligible employees
active users in Visa Learning Hub of annual compliance training renewable electricity use maintained
10 years
50 400+
consecutive inclusion on
Visa Black Scholars joined inaugural cohort World's Most Ethical Companies list cities with Visa support of public transit mobility
2021 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 22
1 As of May 2022
About this Report
Visa’s 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Report describes
our commitments and work in five clusters:
• Empowering People, Communities & Economies
• Securing Commerce & Protecting Customers
• Investing in Our People
• Protecting the Planet
• Operating Responsibly
The focus areas, issues and initiatives we address are important to Visa and our
stakeholders. For more information on how Visa identifies these priorities through our
biennial Materiality process, see page 6 of this report. Additional resources on these
topics are available at visa.com/esg.
This report has been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)
Standards: Core option, and is mapped to the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board
(SASB) Software & IT Services Sustainability Accounting Standard, the Task Force on
Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) recommended disclosures, and relevant World
Economic Forum (WEF) Stakeholder Capitalism Metrics.
This report focuses on Visa’s global commitments and practices, except where noted. We
report data related to Visa’s fiscal year 2021 (October 1, 2020–September 30, 2021) unless
otherwise noted. In some cases, data and information related to our ESG priorities may
include programs and activities underway or introduced in the 2022 fiscal year, as noted.
All references to currency are in U.S. dollars, unless otherwise noted. This is Visa’s seventh
annual ESG Report. Visa’s previous report was published in May 2021.
Please direct questions on this report or topics related to our environmental, social and
governance disclosures to sustainability@visa.com.
This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements generally are identified by words such as “anticipates,” “aims,”“aspires,” “believes,”
“commits,” “estimates,” “expects,” “intends,” “may,” “projects,” “plans,” “could,” “should,” “will,” “continue” and other similar expressions. All statements other than statements of historical fact could be forward-looking statements, which speak only
as of the date they are made, are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are beyond our control and are difficult to predict. Numbers and percentages used in this report
are estimates or approximations and may be based on assumptions. We describe risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, any of these forward-looking statements in our SEC
filings, including our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and our subsequent reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K.Except as required by law, we do not intend to update or revise any forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future
events or otherwise.
2021 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 3
Our Company
4
Corporate Profile
Visa At a Glance
Visa is one of the world’s leaders in digital payments. Our mission is to connect the world through the most innovative,
reliable and secure payments network — enabling individuals, businesses and economies to thrive. We facilitate global Purpose
commerce and money movement across more than 200 countries and territories among a global set of consumers, Uplift everyone, everywhere by being the best way
to pay and be paid
merchants, financial institutions, businesses, strategic partners and government entities through innovative technologies.
To learn more, please visit our website, visa.com.
Headquarters
San Francisco
2019-2021 Financial Results (GAAP) in millions (except for per share data) Regional Hubs
Fiscal Year Ended September 30
Foster City, Miami, Singapore, Dubai, London
2019 2020 2021
Net revenues $22,977 $21,846 $24,105
123
Operating expenses $7,976 $7,765 $8,301
Operating income $15,001 $14,081 $15,804
Global Offices and Data Centers
Net income $12,080 $10,866 $12,311
Shareholders' equity $34,684 $36,210 $37,589
21,500
Diluted class A common stock earnings per share $5.32 $4.89 $5.63
Employees
Visa Network
(as of September 30, 2021)
• 15,100 financial institution clients
• Nearly 80 million merchant locations
• 3.7 billion Visa credentials
• 164.7 billion total transactions processed
(12 months ended September 30, 2021)
• $13 trillion total payments and cash volume
(12 months ended September 30, 2021)
2021 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 5
Our Environmental, At the Board level, the Nominating and Corporate Governance
Committee has formal responsibility to oversee and review our
Social & Governance
management of ESG matters, overall ESG strategy, stakeholder
Approach engagement, formal reporting, and policies and programs in
specific areas, including environmental sustainability, climate
change, human rights, political activities and expenditures,
Visa is committed to operating as a responsible, ethical, social impact and philanthropy.
inclusive and sustainable company. As a global leader in
In 2021, the Board, in full and in individual committees,
digital payments, Visa strives to join with clients, partners
discussed a range of ESG topics, including human capital
and other stakeholders to empower people, businesses
management, inclusion and diversity, climate strategy,
and communities to thrive. We focus on mitigating risk and
political contributions and technology – including
creating value across priority environmental, social and
information security and cybersecurity.
governance (ESG) issues in five clusters:
• Empowering People, Communities & Economies
Materiality1
• Securing Commerce & Protecting Customers
• Investing in Our People To inform our ESG strategy, we conduct a biennial materiality
• Protecting the Planet assessment in accordance with best practice ESG reporting
guidelines. Our latest assessment, completed in 2021,
• Operating Responsibly
incorporates and reflects recent business developments,
ESG trends, global regulatory changes and internal and
ESG Oversight
external stakeholder expectations that have emerged since
Visa believes in the importance of strong layers of our last formal assessment in 2019. Our process includes
governance to ensure proper guidance and oversight is benchmarking, identification, prioritization and validation of
provided across our approach to ESG. ESG topics. We review direct feedback from shareholders,
employee surveys and customer and client information
ESG activities are managed at a functional level across our requests on ESG topics.
strategic and operational areas, with executive and Board
oversight. Visa’s Chief Sustainability Officer is responsible for The sections of this report are organized in line with the
leading the coordination of oversight and development of our results of our materiality assessment. We use terms such
global ESG efforts. At the management level, a cross-functional as “priority issues” and “significant issues” to refer to our
group of more than a dozen senior leaders contributes to material topics in our public disclosures.
coordinating our ESG strategy and reporting efforts.
1 In this report, our use of the terms “material,” “materiality” and other similar terms refers to materiality within the context of our ESG programs and priorities. We are not using these terms as they are used under the securities or other laws of the United States or any other jurisdiction or as these terms are
used in the context of financial statements and financial reporting.
2021 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 6
Stakeholder Engagement ESG-Linked Compensation Relevant Memberships
Through ongoing engagement with our stakeholders to The compensation program for our named executive Visa actively participates in ESG-related organizations and
understand their views and concerns, we can improve and officers (NEOs) promotes retention and rewards peer networks focused on various sustainability topics.
expand our ESG strategic priorities across our business. We performance that enhances stockholder value and drives Key memberships include:
regularly engage our stakeholders in a variety of ways: long-term strategic outcomes, including the Company’s
• Business for Social Responsibility
broader ESG efforts.
• Employees: employee surveys, all-staff meetings, • Business Roundtable
manager/employee dialogue, employee resource There are four primary principles that guide our NEO
• Catalyst
groups (ERGs) compensation program design and administration:
• Centre for Sport and Human Rights
• Clients: client councils, payment forums, client surveys, • Pay for performance • Chief Executives for Corporate Purpose
direct engagement
• Alignment with stakeholders’ interests • Clean Energy Buyers Alliance
• Investors: shareholder earnings calls, direct • Variation based on performance • Corporate Eco Forum
engagement, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
• Motivation and retention of key talent • Council for Inclusive Capitalism
filings, investor conferences, ESG ratings firm profiles
For FY21, the Board developed a scorecard approach for • RE100
• Government and policy officials: direct engagement,
annual bonuses. In the scorecard, ESG goals are included • Sustainable Brands, Brands for Good
testimony before government bodies, participation
alongside financial, client and other goals that are all critical
• Travalyst
as panelists at policy gatherings, industry association
to our corporate strategy and our long-term success. The
memberships and participation • World Business Council for Sustainable Development
Board reviews Visa’s performance relative to all the goals in
• World Economic Forum
• Civil society organizations: direct engagement, the scorecard, including ESG goals, when determining NEO
conferences and events, memberships in initiatives, bonuses for the year.
individual partnerships
In FY21, the annual bonus scorecard included, among other
In 2021, we increased our ESG-focused engagement with
topics, goals related to digital enablement of small and
our shareholders by contacting our top 75 investors—
micro businesses; environment and climate initiatives;
representing more than 66 percent of our outstanding
employee participation in social impact programs; inclusion
Class A common stock—to discuss Visa’s ESG strategy
and diversity initiatives; and employee wellbeing programs.
and performance.
The same scorecard was used for determining
We held ESG-focused meetings with 47 institutional
the annual funding for Visa’s broad-based employee
shareholders representing approximately 35 percent of
bonus plans.
our outstanding Class A common stock, and provided
the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee
of the Board of Directors a quarterly update on feedback
from investors.
2021 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 7
Supporting the United Nations
Sustainable Development Goals
Select Corporate
The United Nations (UN) Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) provide
Recognition
a blueprint for governments, businesses and civil society organizations to
address the most pressing environmental and social issues globally. At Visa,
Dow Jones Sustainability North America Index
we are committed to helping address sustainable development challenges 2021, S&P Global
and create inclusive economies and a thriving planet.
FTSE4Good Index
We believe our work contributes most 2021, FTSE Russell
to addressing the following nine SDGs
2022 America’s Most JUST Companies
2022, JUST Capital
End poverty in all its
GOAL 1
forms everywhere
World’s Most Ethical Companies
2022, Ethisphere
Ensure inclusive and quality
GOAL 4 education for all and promote
lifelong learning Trendsetter
2021, CPA-Zicklin Index
Achieve gender equality and
GOAL 5 empower all women and girls World’s Most Admired Companies
2022, Fortune
Promote inclusive and sustainable
GOAL 8 economic growth, employment Global 2000 World’s Best Employers
and decent work for all 2021, Forbes
Reduce inequality within World’s Most Valuable Global Brands
GOAL 10
and among countries 2021, Brandz
Ensure sustainable consumption Global RepTrak 100
GOAL 12 and production patterns 2022, Reputation Institute
U.S. 500
GOAL 13 Take urgent action to combat 2022, Brand Finance
climate change and its impacts
Training Top 100
Promote just, peaceful 2022, Training Magazine
GOAL 16
and inclusive societies
Revitalize the global partnership
GOAL 17
for sustainable development
2021 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 8
Empowering People,
Communities & Economies
99
Visa is committed to advancing inclusive, equitable and Solutions Tap to Phone
sustainable economic growth for everyone, everywhere. An app-based solution simplifies payment acceptance
We continue to develop products to advance digital
We are focused on reaching people who have been for merchants of any size. Tap to Phone allows sellers to
equity and economic empowerment, including:
traditionally underserved, providing them with access use a mobile application to accept payments without
to resources that can help improve their economic any additional hardware, enabling small businesses to
Visa Acceptance Cloud
livelihoods, businesses and communities. more quickly connect to the Visa network, fast-tracking
A next-generation cloud-based acceptance platform
commerce for sellers around the globe.
providing a point-of-sale (POS) solution that allows
Our priorities include:
business owners to convert any Internet-connected
Authorize.net
• Small and micro business
device to a POS device, enabling access to a low-cost
A solution that helps businesses create flexible, creative
• Digital equity and inclusion and scalable payments solution.
digital commerce solutions to help them grow, whether
• Community support they need help digitizing payments, establishing an online
Visa Direct
presence, preventing fraud or streamlining operations.
A payment solution that helps businesses and individuals
move money between billions of cards and accounts
Small & Micro Business
worldwide. Businesses can use Visa Direct through their
financial institutions to deliver fast, simple and efficient Visa has helped to digitally
According to the UN, micro-, small and medium enterprises
payments to customers and workers. Individuals can use
(MSMEs or SMBs) account for 90 percent of businesses,
enable 30.7 million SMBs
Visa Direct to pay others back, send gifts, share costs and
60 percent to 70 percent of employment and 50 percent
support families around the world.
of GDP worldwide, making them a vital contributor to the worldwide, on track to
world’s economy. Scan to Pay
achieve our goal of
A Quick Response code-based mobile payment solution
In 2020, we announced a global commitment to digitally
that allows users to send payments directly from a 50 million SMBs by 20231
enable 50 million small and micro businesses by the end of
Visa prepaid, debit or credit card account to a range of
2023. To accomplish this goal, we are introducing a range
merchants and businesses using just a mobile phone. Scan
of locally designed programs and solutions that include 1 As of May 2022
to Pay expands payment options for consumers without
building online businesses, increasing the acceptance of
requiring merchant investment in specialized hardware.
digital payments and incentivizing neighborhood support.
2021 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 10
Skills insurance. IF50 aims to make these startups more visible
to investors and partners who can provide capital and
Visa’s Practical Business Skills educational portal houses free Visa Economic
connections.
resources and interactive tools to help business owners Empowerment Institute
start, manage and grow their small businesses. The program Over the last three competitions, IF50 has attracted over
In 2020, we launched the Visa Economic
is focused on helping growth-minded entrepreneurs with 1,000 eligible applicants. Past winners have collectively
Empowerment Institute (VEEI), an independent, non­
fewer than ten employees thrive via a variety of resources. In increased their funding by $620 million in the year
partisan center of excellence for research and public-
2021, we expanded the program globally and offer resources following their win. Winners benefit from access to
private dialogue on payments policy. The VEEI’s
in English, Spanish, French and Arabic. zero-cost tools such as Visa’s Practical Business Skills and
overarching mission is to promote public policies that
Practical Money Skills.
Visa has also built localized online resources in more empower citizens, small businesses and economies.
than 20 countries to provide tools, partner offers and Visa Everywhere Initiative (VEI) It develops new research and insights to inform long­
information on starting, running and growing digital-first VEI is a global innovation program that tasks startups to term policy within the global payments ecosystem.
small businesses. solve payment challenges of tomorrow, further enhance
Visa established VEEI as the next step in our
their own product propositions and provide visionary
ongoing mission to remove barriers to economic
solutions for Visa’s network of partners.
Partnerships & Initiatives empowerment and to create more inclusive, equitable
economic opportunities for everyone, everywhere.
The program first launched in the U.S. in 2015. Since
Complementing our support of solutions and skills, Visa
then, VEI has engaged 8,500 startups in more than 100
A team of fellows, composed of subject matter
develops partnerships and initiatives in support of SMBs.
countries. Collectively, these startups have raised over
experts in payments, development finance,
$16 billion in funding.1
Recognizing that greater digitization of commerce international trade, cybersecurity and other key
can bring enormous benefits to small businesses, Visa’s issues, apply Visa’s global insights and expertise
VEI is committed to supporting diversity in the startup
efforts are focused on helping to ensure both existing and to help governments create more inclusive digital
community as a platform for brilliant innovators of all
newly minted small businesses are well-equipped to economies. The three focus areas of the VEEI are
races, ethnicities, ages, genders and sexual orientations.
meet changing consumer demands and embrace the fostering digital equity and inclusion, unlocking
For example, in 2021 we partnered with StartOut to help
digital future. growth through trade and imagining an open future
shine a spotlight on remarkable LGBTQ+ entrepreneurs.
for payments.
Inclusive Fintech 50
National Football League (NFL)
Visa is a founding supporter of the Inclusive Fintech
As the official payment services technology partner of the
50, (IF50), which promotes early-stage fintechs driving
NFL, Visa ran a season-long commitment to support small
inclusion and resilience for financially underserved people.
businesses as part of its partnership with the NFL. Visa
Companies identified through the initiative offer solutions
teamed up with several teams to give away grants totaling
among payments and remittances, savings and personal
$60,000 to support Black-owned small businesses in and
financial management, infrastructure addressing special
around New York City and Santa Clara, California that have
challenges of underserved customer segments, credit or
been impacted by COVID-19.
1As of the 2022 competition cycle
2021 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 11
Digital Equity Visa worked with governments to reach individuals without
bank accounts and encourage people to spend locally and
& Inclusion
help stimulate economic recovery.
Visa Government Prepaid is an electronic disbursement
Communities and economies thrive when all individuals are
method that replaces paper checks for disbursement of
included in the formal financial system and can benefit from
government benefits (such as Unemployment Insurance,
financial and digital access. Our initiatives and partnerships
Child Support and Temporary Assistance to Needy Families).
focus on helping to enable equitable access to the financial
For benefit recipients, especially those without a banking
and digital ecosystem for everyone, everywhere.
relationship, Visa Government Prepaid cards provide a safer
alternative to carrying cash and checks and are a convenient
The following section provides illustrative examples of how
way to receive government disbursements.
Visa continues to support digital equity and inclusion.
Gig & Hourly Workers
Financial Education
Visa continues to develop new services and work with
Greater financial knowledge can empower people to better
external partners to support gig and hourly workers as the
manage their money and improve their quality of life. Our
gig economy grows. Visa and our Earned Wage Access
award-winning global financial literacy initiative, Practical
technology partners help accelerate payments to workers
Money Skills, strives to link consumers, educators, banks
through Visa Direct, enabling workers to access and
and governments to the tools and resources they need,
transfer earned wages to their bank accounts or eligible
helping individuals and communities develop their money
debit cards in real time, rather than after the typical two-
management skills.
week pay cycle.1
Practical Money Skills programs have now been offered in
In 2021, we continued supporting gig workers through
48 countries and 19 languages and reached more than 3.2
previously established programs and partnerships,
million individuals during 2021.
including with DailyPay, FlexWage, Instant Financial,
PayActiv, Wagestream and ZayZoon.
Government Disbursements
The COVID-19 pandemic highlighted the increased need for
government disbursement programs that enable quick and
efficient distribution of financial support to people in need.
1 Actual fund availability varies by receiving financial institution, receiving account type, region and whether the transaction is domestic or cross-border
2021 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 12
Women’s Economic Empowerment We also partnered with Black Girl Ventures, The Female Community Support
Quotient and IFundWomen to support Black women owned
Expanding women's inclusion in the financial system
businesses in six U.S. cities, including:
has significant economic benefits. Our goal is to increase At Visa, we are committed to using our time, talent and
the number of women who control capital, the number • Extended She’s Next Grant Program to award 60 resources to support and strengthen the communities and
of women entrepreneurs who can access that capital Black women entrepreneurs with a $10,000 grant, one markets in which we operate.
and the number of women who benefit from those year coaching membership to IFundWomen and Visa
businesses as employees or customers. Business Solution partner offers. At the Visa Inc. corporate level, we engage locally through:
• Partnered with Black Girl Ventures to provide small • Community Giving
Visa’s support of women’s economic empowerment
includes the following examples: businesses with a set of digital products and education • Employee Giving & Volunteering
they need to thrive.
• Humanitarian and Disaster Relief
She’s Next
• Visa and The Female Quotient hosted a virtual She’s Next
Visa Foundation focuses its philanthropic efforts through:
The challenges that women entrepreneurs face are universal.
event focused on celebrating the Black community and
Together, Visa in collaboration with IFundWomen, have been women entrepreneurs in D.C. • Community Giving
creating access to funding and education for women-owned
Women in Sports
• Humanitarian and Disaster Relief
small businesses around the world through the Visa She’s
Sports present a significant opportunity for women • Supporting SMBs
Next Grant Program.
to pursue their dreams, both on and off the field. We
In 2021, Visa Inc. contributed approximately $21.5 million
In 2021, we launched the She's Next Grant Program in the underscore our commitment to champion economic to charities around the globe, while Visa Foundation
U.S., Canada, Ireland and India, providing 85+ grants totaling empowerment through our efforts to empower women at funded approximately $25.9 million in grants. This
approximately $950,000. the intersection of business and athletics. includes matching gifts and other amounts described
throughout this section.
Visa supports the U.S. Women’s National Soccer Team
and invests in women’s soccer through partnerships
with Union of European Football Associations’ (UEFA)
Women’s Football and Visa’s longstanding partnership
with the Federation Internationale de Football Association
(FIFA), including the FIFA Women’s World Cup™, FIFA U-17
Women's World Cup™ and FIFA U-20 Women's World Cup™.
2021 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 13
2021 Giving Highlights Team Volunteer Events employee donations to Stop AAPI Hate, AAPI
Team volunteering opportunities are organized, Community Fund and Asian Americans Advancing
$21.5 million encouraged and supported. In 2021, we offered Justice, raising $160,000.
more opportunities for virtual volunteering.
Employees also helped support SMBs through Visa
Visa Inc. Total
Community & Volunteering Councils Foundation’s partnership with Kiva, a crowdfunding
We engage voluntary Community & Volunteering Leaders microfinance organization. Through grant funding from
around the world to facilitate our programs while also Visa Foundation, Visa employees had the opportunity
$25.9 million gaining leadership development opportunities. to direct $50 each in loans to SMBs on the Kiva platform.
In 2021, 82% of employees participated in this effort
For fiscal year 2021, Visa leadership set a goal of 70%
and collectively helped distribute $850,000 in loans to
Visa Foundation Total
employee participation in impact programs through
more than 21,000 SMBs in underserved communities.
donating, volunteering, directing loans to small
Collectively between 2020 and 2021, we directed $1.5
businesses through the Visa Foundation and Kiva
million in loans to 38,000 small businesses in 38
Employee Giving and Volunteering
partnership and more. We exceeded this goal with
countries worldwide. Visa won a Gold Halo
participation from 85% of Visa employees.
Visa employees around the world are empowered Award for Employee Engagement for the Kiva and
to give through donations of time and funds. Visa At Visa, we believe that volunteering in the communities Visa Foundation Partnership.
amplifies employees’ efforts to support causes important in which we live and work is the most impactful way our
In 2020, Visa launched an employee mentorship program
to them through: employees can give back, while also developing their skills.
with Bridge for Billions. Through this online program, Visa
In 2021, more than 4,200 employees from 53 countries
Matching Gifts employees mentor Black, primarily women-owned SMBs
volunteered 43,600 hours.
Visa offers to match employees’ personal donations 1:1 in the U.S. on a three-month incubation journey to help
up to USD $10,000 per year; we also offer 2:1 matching in In employee giving in 2021, nearly 6,000 employees them review their business models, define their financial
response to major disasters and other significant events. donated to 5,800 charities in 73 countries, matched projections, create growth plans for their ventures and more.
In 2021, we engaged over 60 SMBs through the Bridge for
by Visa for a collective $14.7 million. For Giving Tuesday,
Volunteer Time Off (VTO)
Billions program.
Visa offered a double match for employee donations up
Visa offers two days of VTO each year to eligible employees
to $1,000. On that day, 4,200 employees participated
to volunteer for the charity or activity of their choice during Visa also partnered with Digital Boost, a nonprofit digital
and, combined with Visa's match, donated $7.1 million to
work hours. upskilling platform, to support UK-based small businesses
4,400 organizations.
seeking to digitize as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic.
Dollars for Doers
Through this program, Visa employees apply their areas of
In 2021, Visa stood with our Asian American and Pacific
Employees can earn $10 per hour spent volunteering, up to
expertise to mentor small businesses. Through the end of
Islander (AAPI) employees, partners and clients in the
$500 per year, to contribute to the charities they support,
2021, we supported over 166 SMBs in the U.K. through our
U.S. amid heightened discrimination against the AAPI
plus each quarter, two employees from each Visa region
partnership with Digital Boost.
community. In response to violent actions against the
are awarded $1,000 to give back to a charity of their choice.
AAPI community in Atlanta in 2021, we double-matched
2021 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 14
Humanitarian & Disaster Relief Through its investments and grant-making activity, Visa
Foundation partners with organizations that provide
Visa responds to humanitarian crises and disasters in
catalytic capital, capacity building and support services.
communities around the globe by contributing our
Additionally, Visa Foundation uses capital as a tool to enable
resources and unique capabilities in partnerships
the flow of investment capital to gender diverse SMBs.
with governments, international relief groups and
Visa Foundation’s activity has a global reach with a deep
private organizations.
commitment to emerging economies and underserved
communities driving gender equity.
Throughout 2021, Visa Inc. and Visa Foundation provided
support to charities providing humanitarian aid following
In 2021, Visa Foundation committed $18.1 million in grants
major natural disasters around the world:
and $50.5 million in impact investments via its Equitable
Access Initiative. Additionally, Visa Foundation continued
• Hurricane Eta and Hurricane Iota in Central America
a five-year, $20 million partnership with Women’s World
• Typhoon Goni and Typhoon Vamco in the Philippines
Banking to support women-owned SMBs around the world.
• Mt. Nyiragongo Eruption in Democratic Republic of the Women's World Banking drives impact through its scalable,
Congo and Rwanda market-driven financial and policy solutions, gender lens
private equity fund and leadership and diversity programs.
• Flooding in Central Europe
• Hurricane Ida in the U.S.
Visa Humanitarian Aid
Visa Foundation is an Annual Disaster Giving Program
Support in Ukraine
member of the American Red Cross, representing a
commitment of $500,000 annually to help the Red Cross Following the Russian invasion of Ukraine in early 2022, Visa
prepare for disasters across the U.S., such as Hurricane Ida. Inc. took swift action to ensure the safety and security of
our people who were directly impacted. Visa Foundation
provided a $2 million grant to the U.S. Fund for United
Visa Foundation
Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) to support humanitarian
Visa Foundation launched the Equitable Access Initiative aid to the people of Ukraine.
in 2020, a five-year, $200 million strategic commitment
Visa Inc. also double-matched all reported employee
to support gender diverse and inclusive SMBs around the
donations to the Ukraine response funds of UNICEF and
world. As a part of the initiative, Visa Foundation will provide
the Red Cross, raising almost $1.4 million between reported
at least $60 million in grants and $140 million in impact
employee donations and Visa match. Visa Inc. and its
investments to organizations at the forefront of economic
clients waived interchange fees in the U.S., Canada and
justice and entrepreneurship.
many European countries to numerous charities providing
humanitarian aid.
2021 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 15
Securing Commerce &
Protecting Customers
16
Payments Security The Intelligent Security framework spans the entire We continue to work with clients across different regions
transaction lifecycle: to meet their unique needs and accelerate the adoption of
these solutions.
Visa’s ecosystem is a network of networks that enables Onboarding & Management
participants to move money for everyone, everywhere. Provide financial institutions with tools to identify identity We measure the effectiveness of our approach to
For payments security, we are committed to making our fraud at account opening. Through our financial institution payments security on an ongoing basis. We monitor
ecosystem the most secure, resilient and trusted engine clients, we provide tools to manage security, including metrics such as fraud rates for Card Present and Card
of commerce. We continuously scan the ecosystem to account use restrictions and customizable alerts. Not Present scenarios as well as transaction volumes
identify and invest in new capabilities, work with clients to that leverage secure technologies, such as 3-D Secure
Consumer Identity & Authentication
help secure the environment and take action to improve or Tokenization. Additionally, we implement capability
Apply artificial intelligence-powered authentication
the security, integrity and resiliency of our network. roadmaps for digitalization and automation. We improve
strategies to prevent unauthorized access to Visa accounts.
the operational resilience of our network by engaging
We invest in innovation to build and maintain trust for with ecosystem participants to gather perspectives,
Transaction Authorization
our network and the broader payments ecosystem. benchmark our thinking and approach and steer our
Use tools such as Visa Advanced Authorization, which
Specifically, we have invested approximately $9 billion in security investments.
applies real-time AI and machine learning to evaluate the
cybersecurity over the past five years, with about $500
trustworthiness of transactions to prevent fraud without
million of that specifically allocated to data and artificial
inconveniencing consumers.
intelligence (AI) capabilities. We continue to evolve our
security capabilities and work to lower our global fraud Dispute Management Visa Advanced Authorization
rate, which is at an all-time low of $0.07 for every $100 in Help consumers and issuers proactively address
and Visa Risk Manager used AI
payment volume on our network. transaction disputes with Visa tools such as Verifi, which
provides issuers and customers access to transaction and machine learning to help
The Visa Intelligent Security framework offers our
information from sellers via a global data-sharing network.
ecosystem partners dynamic, data-rich solutions that help
reduce fraud by $26B in 2021.
balance fraud reduction and dispute prevention. Our aim Performance Optimization
is to increase approvals so that businesses can thrive while Enhance payment performance by reducing fraud and
customers are protected and satisfied — no matter where increasing efficiency.
or how they are paid or pay.
2021 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 17
AI-Powered Innovations
for Smarter Payments
Visa is leveraging AI to improve our customer experience and enhance processes that enable the movement of billions
of dollars across thousands of institutions in more than 200 countries and territories and 160 currencies. In February 2021,
Visa announced VisaNet +AI, a suite of AI-powered services that enhance predictability, transparency and speed in the
payment experience. VisaNet +AI includes Visa Smarter Posting and Visa Smarter Settlement Forecast, as well as Visa
Smarter Stand-In Processing (STIP).
Smarter Posting
When a restaurant-goer adds a tip, or when a cross-border payment involves multiple currencies, the amount
authorized in real time at checkout can differ from the amount eventually cleared from a consumer’s account. Banks
often delay posting the payment or updating the account balance until they have certainty about the final amount. To
help issuers create a better banking experience for cardholders, Visa developed Smarter Posting, a service that uses AI
to deliver a customized score for each transaction as part of the authorization process. The Smarter Posting model
analyzes transaction details and historical data to predict the likelihood that a transaction amount will remain consistent
through clearing.
Smarter Settlement Forecast
As the final step in the payment cycle, transactions are aggregated, transfers are facilitated between acquirers
and issuers, and merchant accounts are credited for completed sales. Visa created Smarter Settlement Forecast to
provide financial institution clients with customized 7-day forecasts of the settlement amount they may need on hand
each day. The service uses information generated by historical settlement volumes, seasonal indicators, macro-trends,
outlier events and real-time transaction data to provide high-quality predictions of cash outflows and inflows.
Smarter Stand-In Processing
Smarter STIP uses deep learning to help financial institutions increase transaction authorizations during outages.
Smarter STIP generates an informed decision to approve or decline transactions on behalf of issuers to provide
consumers with a frictionless Visa payment experience.
2021 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 18
Cybersecurity at Visa security requirements. Customized Visa-engineered Policy & Training
solutions include Visa Behavior Analytics and the Self-
Visa’s cybersecurity policy framework, the Key Controls,
Defending Platform.
Recognizing that the cyber threat landscape continues to details our approach to protecting our information
evolve, Visa is committed to championing cybersecurity Visa Behavior Analytics defends against digital identity and technology assets, including the safe handling of
within our operations. fraud by providing strong consumer authentication. By consumer nonpublic personal information. The Key
building our own products, we keep cybersecurity data Controls are reviewed at least annually and updated as
We use an established risk assessment methodology and in-house, compared to previous models which outsourced needed to address any changes to industry or regulatory
framework to identify cybersecurity risks and associated data to a black-box model. requirements, new technologies or emerging threats.
business impacts. Over the past several years, Gartner
Consulting assessed Visa’s security posture and assigned Visa also makes year-over-year investments to improve We provide new employees with security awareness
Visa its highest rating among peer companies for the our cybersecurity capabilities. We continue to implement training and conduct annual Key Controls training for all
overall maturity of our cybersecurity program. new technologies and processes to enhance our security staff, to promote good cyber-hygiene and familiarity with
posture against emerging threats. Visa processes and tools. In 2021, 100% percent of eligible
At Visa, we build and use AI to detect and secure cyber
employees completed Key Controls training. Additionally,
threats. We approach cybersecurity with a layered No single technology in isolation can stop every threat.
Visa Cybersecurity has launched an e-curriculum of online
defense-in-depth strategy. We further advance our We deploy multiple redundant layers of preventative and
training modules covering such topics as Phishing, Data
capabilities based on our core areas of focus, including detective technologies across our network and data layers.
Security, Security Assessment and more.
enhancing our architecture, expanding our data security In the rare event cyber criminals succeed in breaching
program to include unstructured data and conducting one layer, the doors beyond that layer are locked. We We publish cybersecurity awareness content to
continuous security and efficacy efforts. Visa developers collaborate and share our security approach with industry employees across multiple enterprise channels throughout
build security into applications with the very first lines peers, clients and competitors. the year. These include intranet pages dedicated to various
of code. We augment our core detection capabilities topics such as phishing prevention and secure file transfer,
Our cybersecurity approach is supported by robust
with a proactive approach, where we “hunt” for traces of periodic blog articles covering seasonal threats and
governance processes which involve regular reporting to
malicious activity to intercept would-be attackers. relevant tips, such as secure remote working, executive
management- and Board-level committees responsible
announcements on key themes and instructor-led training
Visa uses novel innovation in the new field of behavior for risk management and cybersecurity oversight. We
and speaker sessions.
biometrics coupled with the economics of vendor provide regular updates to the full Board, including an
offerings to champion the development of AI products annual in-depth review. Each October, Visa celebrates Cybersecurity Awareness
that support cybersecurity. Our cybersecurity team Month with a month-long, multi-channel messaging
The following sections describe some of the components we
develops solutions in-house to meet our stringent campaign, including online articles, training modules,
use to enact our cybersecurity strategy across the business.
speaker sessions and additional online content.
2021 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 19
Adaptive Resiliency external reviews include: Payment Card Industry Data • We use personal information only for defined,
Security Standard, Statement on Standards for Attestation appropriate purposes. In addition to operating one of
We regularly conduct cross-functional response and
Engagements (SSAE-18) and International Standard on the world’s largest electronic payments networks, we
resiliency exercises involving multiple internal teams as
Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3402. provide authentication, fraud management, loyalty,
well as external partners and agencies.
consulting and data processing services. We also create
In addition, we are subject to privacy and data security
data products that give our clients insights into their
In 2021, we further evolved the Visa Cyber Fusion
laws, such as the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (GLBA) and the
business performance. These products contain data that
Framework to drive an active and adaptive global Cyber
European Union General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR).
is de-identified to protect consumer privacy.
Defense capability. This capability allows us to scale to
meet the increasing threat landscape through the ability • We support our commitments with a dedicated
to rapidly collect, analyze and use cyber threat intelligence global privacy program, employee training and
while providing continuous real-time validation of our rigorous assessments.
Data Privacy
security tools and assets. We augment our data with
At Visa, we have accountable executives and hundreds of
intelligence from hundreds of unique sources to enhance
dedicated security, privacy and data professionals working
detection and response capabilities.
around the world on these topics. Our Global Privacy
At Visa, building trust begins with a commitment to
Office, composed of dozens of privacy professionals
We also leverage AI and deep learning technology to privacy and security, which instills confidence in our
around the world, is led by Visa’s Chief Privacy Officer and
monitor our network and understand the threats aimed employees and clients, protects our brand and allows
closely coordinates with several cross-functional teams
at our company. As cybersecurity risks continue to us to innovate responsibly. We believe consumers
and governance bodies, including our Cybersecurity and
develop, we are focused on maintaining our security expect convenience, security and privacy from their
Data Governance operations.
posture ahead of the evolving threat landscape. We payment experiences.
strengthened our supply chain by completing additional
The Corporate Risk Committee and the Visa Board’s
To meet these expectations, Visa makes
risk assessments. Our efforts to mitigate risks, including
Audit and Risk Committee oversee the Global Privacy
the following commitments:
malware attacks, data breaches and phishing scams,
Program and the risks related to data privacy, including our
focus on continuous cybersecurity threat identification. • We adhere to high ethical and legal standards compliance with current and emerging data protection
everywhere we operate. laws around the world.
Audits & Third-Party Certifications • We do not sell personal information. Our Global Privacy
Notice describes how we share information, such as
To promote the effectiveness of our cybersecurity
when we process payments, provide services to card
approach and systems, we conduct annual internal and
issuers, prevent fraud or with a cardholder’s consent.
external audits of our IT infrastructure and applications.
These systems also are subject to examination by the
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC)
and other regulators from across the globe. Examples of
2021 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 20
Responsible Data Use Value Visa has developed an extensive, multi-layered governance
Data use at Visa should benefit individuals, businesses and accountability structure, including operational, legal,
and economies. We strive to do this by delivering greater privacy and risk-based frameworks. We have established
We utilize data to improve the security and value of the security, financial inclusion and consumer convenience. several internal committees to help ensure our governance
Visa network, better serve our clients and partners, and internal values are applied, including the MRM
protect consumers from fraud and drive positive impact Fairness Committee and the Visa Data Use Council.
for communities and economies around the globe. Visa’s application of data and data-driven insights aims
to be fair and inclusive and avoid discrimination. Visa will
We recognize consumers are concerned about how strive to make our models explainable, accurate and safe.
their data is collected, used, shared and kept secure.
Our privacy commitments are outlined in our Privacy Accountability
Notices and, where we market services directly to Visa’s approach to data use should be consistently applied
consumers, in the terms and conditions of those programs. at all levels of the organization and be embedded through
process, training and management responsibilities.
In addition to our Global Privacy Policy and the internal
standards that form the basis of our Global Privacy Program, These principles, which are aspirational, may evolve over time
we developed a set of Data Values to capture, in plain based on the needs of consumers, businesses and economies
language, the principles we believe should apply when and to adapt to new privacy and data-related regulations and
companies collect consumer data. These values inform standards that may emerge. As Visa’s business moves into
Visa’s role as a leader in the payments ecosystem. Data new technologies, payment flows and value-added services,
innovation is a vital component of Visa’s strategy — and we are committed to engaging with policymakers and
in everything we do — built on our 60-year legacy of regulators worldwide to participate in the development and
responsible data stewardship. harmonization of privacy regulations and standards.
Security
Responsible Use of
Individuals and businesses should have confidence that
Artificial Intelligence (AI)
Visa payment data is safe. There is no higher priority
for Visa than safeguarding those who use our products,
Bias, or the potential of producing unlawful or undesired
services and network.
discrimination, is one of the greatest risks posed by AI. Bias
can enter the product lifecycle at many stages, and Visa
Control
believes that mitigation needs to exist at all stages. Visa’s
Visa will always strive to provide simple explanations
Model Risk Management (MRM) tests models for statistical
regarding how data may be used and to empower individuals
integrity as well as unintended impacts, like bias.
with easy processes to manage use of their data.
2021 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 21
Transaction Integrity • Works with acquiring banks to identify and terminate
merchants that are selling illegal items and services.
• Engages with law enforcement to stay abreast of
Visa connects the world through the most innovative,
ecosystem risks.
reliable and secure payments network — enabling
individuals, businesses and economies to thrive. Visa • Supports the U.S. Financial Coalition Against Child
is committed to ensuring the integrity of our payment Exploitation and the U.S.-based National Center for
system. We do not tolerate the use of our network and Missing & Exploited Children.
products for illegal activity, and we are vigilant in our efforts • Combats counterfeiting and piracy in partnership with
to deter illegal activity on our network. the International Anti-Counterfeiting Coalition.
Our approach to protecting the network is grounded Visa is a member of the Alliance for Safe Online Pharmacies,
in the Visa Rules and our robust compliance programs. a global initiative that works to combat illegally sold
When participants on the network are unable to meet our prescription medicines.
requirements, we levy financial penalties and, based on the
Visa continues to respond to situations that developed
circumstances, suspend or terminate them from our system.
during the COVID-19 pandemic, including by partnering
Visa’s Global Brand Protection Program, for example, with government agencies to identify and address
manages situations where the Visa brand is associated with merchants offering fake and/or unapproved COVID-19
high-risk or potentially brand-damaging activities, such as cures, treatments and test kits online.
internet gambling, pharmaceutical sales and adult content.
As part of the Program, Visa:
• Maintains registration requirements for acquirers and
merchants, pursuant to which acquirers attest to their
compliance with our standards.
• Provides acquirers guidance and direction on controls to
help comply with Visa’s rules.
• Proactively monitors participant activity via machine-
learning solutions.
2021 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 22
Investing in Our People
2233
Inclusion & Diversity hiring panels. We also instituted a Quarterly Business Visa has established goals to build a more equitable
Review specifically focused on Inclusion & Diversity for workforce. In 2021, we made strong progress toward our
deeper understanding of proactive progress. two primary goals:
Visa has made social justice and racial equality a business
imperative. In 2020, our CEO made a public commitment By committing to building, developing and investing in • Increasing the number of employees from historically
to Stand Together, our effort to address social and racial Black and African American and Latinx employees, as well underrepresented groups at the vice president level and
inequality within Visa and around the globe through actions as employees from other historically underrepresented above in the U.S. by 50% by 2023.
focused on our people, our community and our company. groups, we can create more socially and racially • Increasing the number of historically underrepresented
To support these efforts, in 2021 we welcomed Michelle equitable teams. Visa employees in the U.S. by 50% by 2025.
Gethers as our Chief Diversity Officer & Head of Corporate
Responsibility — a role that reports directly to our CEO and
Workforce Demographics
sits on the Visa executive committee.
We are committed to undertaking the next steps in our
journey, with the goal of driving lasting change through:
Gender in Global Workforce Gender in U.S. Workforce Ethnicities in U.S. Workforce
• Our people
58% 58% 41%
• Community Allyship Men Men Asian
7%
• Our company 42% 42%
Black
Women Women 12%
Hispanic
Our People
37%
White
At Visa, we want our employees to feel like they belong. We
3%
invest in a workplace that encourages diversity of thought, Other2
culture and background so that diverse perspectives are
embedded in the work that we do. We create an inclusive Gender in Global Leadership1 Gender in U.S. Leadership1 Ethnicities in U.S. Leadership1
workplace by encouraging employees to come as they are
and by investing in robust inclusion and diversity training. 65% 65% 20%
Asian
Men Men
6%
We are committed to creating and maintaining a diverse 35% 35% Black
talent pipeline. In the United States, we have embedded Women Women 12%
Hispanic
our commitment to diversity and inclusion in the hiring
59%
process, including diverse candidates in all job slates and White
2%
Other2
Data is based on company records as of September 30, 2021.
1 Leadership: VP and above.
2 Other: American Indian/Alaska Native, Native Hawaiian/Other Pacific Islander and two or more races. Ethnicity data does not include undeclared and blanks.
2021 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 24
In 2021, we conducted the following initiatives to help • Introduced Leading and Belonging at Visa, a new
achieve these goals: learning experience for leaders, created in partnership
with the Perception Institute, an organization
• Expanded new talent experience programs to develop
that translates mind science research on race and
and advance Black and African American talent and
other identities into solutions that reduce bias and
other historically underrepresented groups, including
discrimination and promote belonging.
partnering with the McKinsey Leadership Academy for
Senior Director+ talent and our own cluster coaching
Pay Equity
program for employees up to the Senior Director level.
At Visa, men and women earn the same pay for the
• Launched Visa Black SUCCEED (Supporting
same work globally, and the same is true for historically
Underrepresented Coaching Clusters Engaged in
underrepresented employees and their white peers in
Executive Development) Program, an in-house
the U.S.1
program open to all Black and African American
employees at the senior director level and below.
As part of building our inclusive and equitable organization,
Program participants are coached by Vice President
we are committed to tracking, measuring, evaluating and
and Senior Vice President level executives.
reporting annually on our workforce demographics and
• Continued evolving mentorship programs for Black and pay equity. Visa conducts pay equity assessments on an
African American Senior Directors and career sponsorship annual basis.
of Black and African American Vice Presidents.
• Announced the inaugural class of 50 Visa Black
Scholars and Jobs Program participants. In partnership
Equal pay for equal work.
with the Thurgood Marshall Foundation College Fund,
the Visa Black Scholars and Jobs Program includes a Men and women earn the
$10 million investment from Visa over the next five
same pay for the same work
years. Through the program, select college-bound
Black and African American high school students in
globally, and the same is true for
the U.S. will receive yearly scholarship assistance,
mentorship from Visa employees and the opportunity underrepresented employees
for an immersive internship experience. Those who
and their white peers in the U.S.
meet all program requirements will receive a full-time
job offer with Visa after graduation.
1 Equal pay analysis is based on FY21 total compensation, which includes base salary, VIP (Visa Incentive Plan) and LTIP (Long-Term Incentive Program).
Underrepresented employees are Black/African American, Hispanic/Latinx, American Indian/Alaska Native, Native Hawaiian/Other Pacific Islander or two or more races.
2021 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 25
Employee Resource Groups of the benefits available to Visa employees in the U.S. that featured a speaker series from the National Autistic
may be of particular interest to members of the LGBTQ+ Society, neurodiversity training for Visa employees and
The Visa community-focused Employee Resource Groups
community, including: conversations with neurodivergent athletes.
(ERGs) complement our broader corporate inclusion and
diversity efforts and help foster an inclusive workplace
• Transgender Healthcare
Community Allyship
environment that seeks to fully take advantage of • HIV Prevention Prescription Coverage
employees' talents, skills and abilities. ERGs include: • LGBTQ+ Family Planning
We believe that active allyship is key to fostering an
• Latinx Connect • Adoption & Surrogacy Assistance inclusive workplace. We encourage employees to build
• Military (MERG)
• Flexible Spending Accounts for LGBTQ+ related services knowledge of colleagues' backgrounds and experiences.
We provide training opportunities to equip our employees
• Native American As part of Transgender Day of Visibility, in 2021 we highlighted
with resources and tools to become active allies and
our partnership with Daylight, the first digital bank to address
• Parents & Caregivers
learn behaviors that build a workplace where diverse
the unique financial needs of the LGBTQ+ community.
• Visa Asian Employee Network (VAEN) perspectives are voiced and heard.
• Visa Black Employees (ViBE) Additionally, Visa partnered with Chase and United Airlines
Allyship efforts include promoting educational dialogue
• Visa Employees with Disabilities (ViAble) to support the Human Rights Campaign, StartOut and The
through our Stand Together resources, including a
Trevor Project to drive donations to these organizations
• Visa Indian Alliance (VINA)
Global Inclusion Talks speaker series. This series provides
supporting the LGBTQ+ community.
• Visa Pride historical context on racism and identifies actions
• Visa Women’s Network (VWN) (includes Women in employees can take to demonstrate solidarity and build
Supporting Employees with Disabilities
Business, Women in Finance, Women in Product, a better understanding of the experiences of historically
Women in Technology) underrepresented groups. We encourage employees
Visa welcomes talented people with diverse backgrounds
• Young Professionals at Visa (YP@V) to combat unconscious bias by participating in internal
and perspectives to help make the business and company
courses on our virtual learning platforms. In addition, new
culture better. We also recognize the unique contributions
Supporting LGBTQ+ Employees manager training is designed to reinforce a culture of
of employees with disabilities. Neurodiversity, like
inclusion and allyship.
any other form of diversity, provides input of different
Visa celebrates the individuality of all employees and
information and perspectives, leading to better decision
is committed to building an inclusive culture where
making and problem solving. Visa Employees with
all employees feel they belong, no matter whom they
Disabilities (ViAble), in partnership with the Talent
love. Visa is a proud supporter of the Lesbian, Gay, Bi,
Acquisition team, launched a neurodiversity hiring pilot
Transgender, Queer and other (LGBTQ+) community.
in 2019 to help ensure Visa’s workplace remains one of
This commitment extends to our benefits programs, inclusivity and support for neurodiverse colleagues.
which take into account the unique needs of the LGBTQ+
To celebrate contributions, ViAble and the Inclusion
community. In 2021 we partnered with the Pride ERG to
and Diversity team hosted virtual events throughout
develop the LGBTQ+ Benefits Toolkit, a high-level overview
April to recognize Autism Awareness Month. Events
2021 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 26
Throughout 2021, Visa employees mobilized to help At Visa, we are focused on creating fair and equitable Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.1 AA is a
advance social justice, racial equality and inclusion in products that can serve as many people as possible. We global standard for accessibility that helps reduce barriers
the community: believe inclusive product design produces better and more to people with disabilities. At Visa, we have created Global
thoughtful products, as well as being a crucial element of Accessibility Requirements (VGAR) to support Visa staff to
• Visa employees hosted coding camps for historically
our strategy to uplift everyone, everywhere by being the more easily and consistently create accessible products.
underrepresented youth.
best way to pay and be paid. VGAR is a 5-step methodology that supports compliance with
• We expanded the focus of pro bono legal efforts to international accessibility standards and laws. For more on
In using an inclusion-first approach, we are able to develop
address police discrimination and provided legal services VGAR, please visit the Visa Developer Center.
products that reflect the full range of diversity in identity
to minority-owned small businesses and asylum seekers
and experiences of our clients, partners and consumers.
stranded in Mexico with asylum applications.
Marketing Responsibly
• Visa Chairman & CEO Al Kelly participated in the 2021
Inclusive Technology Terminology (ITT) We also are using the strength and influence of the Visa
Bloomberg Equality Summit, discussing Visa’s progress
brand to foster inclusive communities. We will continue
to become a more inclusive and diverse company.
As part of Visa's continuing efforts to build a culture of
to reflect historically underrepresented groups in our
• Visa Chief Diversity Officer & Head of Corporate intentional inclusion, we are working to remove non­
marketing campaigns, sponsorships and events, including
Responsibility, Michelle Gethers, participated in inclusive technology terminology and code in Visa owned
partnerships with a diverse set of Team Visa athletes who are
Fortune’s Most Powerful Women summit discussing applications, systems and artifacts. As the project evolves,
representative of the communities where we live and work.
allyship, mentorship and leveling the playing field for we are using scanning tools, expertise and ITT Guiding
women, especially Women of Color, in the workplace. Principles to identify non-inclusive language and further In 2021, we launched a Creative Review Advisory
inspire change within Visa. Council that reviews and advises on Visa marketing and
• Visa recognized International Women’s Day and
communications campaigns. The council aims to ensure
Women’s History Month to celebrate women’s
In order to support interoperability with the technology and
that representation from historically underrepresented
achievements, raise awareness against bias and take
payments ecosystem, Visa will work with the industry to
communities is embedded in each campaign, supporting
action for gender equality. The Visa Foundation and Kiva
influence and help change non-inclusive industry standard
Visa’s belief that economies that include everyone,
partnered around the theme #ChooseToChallenge:
terms and apply changes in conjunction with the industry.
everywhere, uplift everyone, everywhere. The Advisory
Driving Women’s Economic Advancement Throughout
Council consists of Visa employees who are members
the World.
Promoting Accessibility of a Visa ERG and represent varying career levels in
non-marketing and non-communications roles. We
Our Company Accessibility involves designing, developing and testing
encourage participation from individuals with varying racial,
an interface to make it accessible for people with
We are also using our influence as a company to catalyze cultural and gender identities. We believe these diverse
disabilities, including those that affect a user’s visual,
change externally. For example, we are working to diversify our perspectives help ensure cultural resonance and relevance
physical, cognitive or hearing ability. Careful design and
supply chain by updating sourcing language and considering to historically underrepresented audiences.
implementation help ensure a good user experience for all.
diversity when making selections. For more information on our
supplier diversity efforts, see page 48 of this report.
2021 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 27
Employee Learning • Launching the Payments Everywhere Certification
Program, a flagship program for Visa and the payments
Inclusion & Diversity & Development
industry, designed to advance payments expertise and
Recognition set a key benchmark of skills proficiency for everyone at
Visa, at any career or experience level.
Visa has a longstanding commitment to invest in our
• #14 Companies With Best Diversity and Inclusion
employees. Robust development and educational • Debuting the Technology New College Graduate
numbers (Fortune, 2021)
programs in areas of payments, technology, inclusion and programs, an eight-day specialized onboarding program
• Inclusion Index (Diversity Best Practices) diversity, professional development and leadership are key that supports new college graduates joining Visa in the
components of this commitment. Technology function.
• Gender-Equality Index (Bloomberg, 2022)
• Expanding Visa’s Insights, Discovery, Deal, Energize
In FY21, with many of our employees continuing to work
• Best Places to Work for LGBTQ+ Equality — 100%
and Advance Sales program, a bespoke sales training
remotely, we adapted our strategy for delivering learning
Corporate Equality Index
program designed to elevate the key skills, behaviors and
to ensure we still met the development needs of our
(Human Rights Campaign, 2022)
resources necessary to identify client needs, propose
employees. Visa expanded our all-virtual learning offerings
solutions, and sell and implement those solutions.
• Black Equity Index Inaugural Member in 2021 by transitioning to virtual instructor-led training,
(Coqual, 2022) scaling our approach, upskilling designers and trainers and • Beginning Ignite: Leading Visa Forward, a development
optimizing processes on the Visa Learning Hub. In 2021, we program designed to enhance Visa Vice Presidents’
• 100% on the Disability Equality Index & Best Place
saw over 21,000 active users on the Visa Learning Hub, a 42 organizational agility and resilience skills in partnership
to Work for People with Disabilities (Disability
percent increase from 2020. with INSEAD business school.
Equality Index, 2021)
Additionally, we hosted Visa’s third annual global Learning
We provided additional employee development
• Corporate Inclusion Index, 5-Star Rating for
Festival virtually. A series of over 80 learning sessions was
opportunities and resources by expanding the Visa
Employment and Governance (Hispanic
created to inspire employee curiosity around the theme
Learning Hub. Key accomplishments include:
Association on Corporate Responsibility, 2021)
“Energize.” During the three-day festival, leaders provided
• Best Employers for Women (Forbes, 2021) • Establishing a mentoring program in North America to keynote speeches and shared ideas for cultivating
support focused development for a range of levels and growth centered around the three pillars of Visa’s
functions. Over 1,000 employees participated. ongoing success: Clients, Technology and People. More
than a quarter of Visa employees registered for a virtual
• Creating the Visa Inside Track Challenge, a new gamified
event. Across the 80+ sessions, there were over 28,000
e-learning program that offers education to client-facing
registrations, totaling more than 80,000 hours of training.
teams and all of Visa on the growing catalog of available
products and services.
2021 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 28
As a part of the 2021 Visa Learning Festival, Visa In 2022, we aim to increase participation and learning
employees had the opportunity to participate in one of consumption by 10% across all modalities.
the most sought-after client-facing programs, Payments
Management Lab (PML). PML is a fully reimagined,
virtual version of our popular Bankcard Management
School,which has helped thousands of global participants Visa named #15 in top 100
advance their payments careers.
global learning organizations
Visa has been recognized for programmatic excellence
by Training magazine.
by several global organizations. In 2021, Visa was named
#15 in the top 100 global learning organizations by Training
magazine. Visa also was recognized as a top-ten global
Developing the Future Workforce
learning organization (ranked #9 out of 70 submissions)
for work in diversity and inclusion training, virtual training At Visa, we prioritize cultivating an educated, skilled and
innovations and involvement of Visa senior executives in diverse workforce. In support of our priority and as part of
talent development initiatives. our 2018 Pledge to American Workers, we continue working
to enhance career opportunities for 14,500 individuals,
Additionally, Visa was recognized with bronze awards in
both within and outside of Visa's workforce, including
two categories: “Best Results of a Learning Program” and
through apprenticeships and work-based learning
“Best Program for Sales and Training Performance” for the
programs. In the summer of 2021, we hosted over 300 full-
design, development, distribution and results of Visa Inside
time interns with the goal of offering high performers Visa
Track Challenge from Brandon Hall Group Excellence
employment upon college graduation.
Awards, Human Capital Management.
In 2021, 86% of Visa employees participated in Visa
University virtual, instructor-led or self-paced digital
learning programs, consuming over 230,000 hours
of learning, a 30% increase in participation from 2020.
In addition, approximately 56% of Visa employees
leveraged one or more of over 100,000 digital assets
through enterprise subscriptions, which are available
to all employees through the integrated learning
experience platform, the Learning Hub totaling 130,000
hours of digital, self-paced learning.
2021 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 29
Employee Engagement The internal launch of Visa’s brand evolution — Meet
Visa — drove record employee engagement with Visa’s
In 2021, 100% of eligible
new purpose and brand. We focused storytelling across
In 2021, we reorganized and rebranded our Human channels to reflect Visa's purpose through perspectives employees received a
Resources organization as the “People Team” to better of our employees as they share how their work uplifts
performance review.
reflect Visa’s strategic people programs and processes. We everyone, everywhere.
also created a dedicated Global Employee Engagement
function to deepen focus on the employee experience. We continue to inform and engage our employees through
Performance Reviews
content on Visa’s intranet, digital signage and employee
As part of our ongoing commitment to increase employee attendance at events, quarterly all-staff meetings, virtual
In 2021, we implemented a simplified performance
engagement, we focused on planning and executing events, speaker series and other approaches.
review focused on employee impact and development
Return to Office and Reimagining Work, while fostering a
opportunities. This strengthened performance conversations
culture that values employee growth and wellbeing. Our
Pulse Surveys to drive growth and improvement. In 2021, 100 percent of
actions include continuing a bi-weekly video series from
eligible employees received a performance review.
our Chairman and CEO, as well as regular all-staff meetings
In 2020, we replaced our Annual Employee Survey with
held by our regional and functional leaders to allow
pulse surveys—short-form questionnaires distributed
employees to ask direct questions about Visa’s business Employee Recognition
more than once per year to assess employee engagement,
activities and response to global events.
satisfaction and wellbeing. Given the challenges of
We continued several new employee recognition programs
COVID-19 and the sudden transition to remote work
In 2021, we continued to support the evolving needs of in 2021, including one that enables our employees and
arrangements, we tailored these surveys to understand
employees amid the ongoing environmental, political and people managers to celebrate their colleagues through
and respond to employee needs in an evolving and
public health challenges we faced. Visa’s continued focus our GoBeyond peer-to-peer recognition platform. In 2021,
complex environment.
on employee experience aligns to four areas: employees sent more than 6,000 virtual cards to their
colleagues. A pulse survey from the summer of 2021 noted
According to the results of a 2021 employee pulse survey,
• Employee engagement surveys
that 76% of employees feel that Visa is recognizing the
employees increasingly feel their different views and
• Creating a new, inspiring employee value proposition
people who are doing good work.
opinions are valued and felt free to voice a contrary opinion
linked to our leadership principles and purpose
without fear of any negative consequences. In 2021, we
• Developing a global and comprehensive recognition In 2022 we plan to create a global blueprint for how we
launched a wellbeing-focused pulse survey to inform the
framework that uplifts everyone, everywhere want to standardize and promote a culture of recognition
design of new and existing global wellbeing offerings
that includes comprehensive practices for event and
• Revamping Visa’s year-one new hire experience for for employees.
performance-based amplification across the moments
enhanced engagement
that matter in the employee lifecycle.
Our @LifeatVisa Instagram channel continues to be an
active destination for employees, potential employees
and the general public to get a glimpse into Visa’s people,
community and culture.
2021 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 30
Employee Wellbeing • Offered culturally relevant regional customization for
programs outside of North America.
• Tailored Visa talent planning through a cross-functional
Visa has heightened our focus on supporting the mental
partnership between the Director of Wellbeing and
health of our employees. We launched the Be Well
Visa talent teams to build psychological safety and
Wellbeing Hub, delivering frequent communication from
empathetic leadership into our midyear and annual
leaders and hosting mental health awareness events.
review processes.
The Be Well Wellbeing Hub hosts tools, workshops and
wellbeing benefits programs organized by region. In • Scaled our Mental Health and Wellbeing for Peak
addition, at no cost to employees, a dedicated wellness Performance course in Visa University to be offered in
coach is reachable by video, phone or chat. our Central and Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa
and Asia Pacific regions.
We enhanced our Wellbeing program in 2021 with the
We are using local and national guidance and emergency
following initiatives:
and regulatory requirements to implement global
• Launched the Be Well Ambassador program where best practices as employees return to offices in 2022.
employees are empowered and equipped to support We designed a new Flexible Work approach to be
their colleagues by leading workshops, providing implemented as we welcome our employees back to
announcements and sharing wellbeing resources. Visa offices. We work closely with governments and
health providers to make vaccines readily available to
• Hosted safe spaces sessions for employees facing
our employees, along with education sessions on the
societal challenges, including Asian American and
vaccination process.
Pacific Islander, Latinx and Black and African American
employees, to decompress and find respite with the We also have enhanced employee COVID-testing offerings,
support of a facilitator or licensed mental health provider. office cleaning protocols and signage and educational
• Provided people leader coaching sessions for senior materials posted around offices and online platforms.
leaders to offer their advice to people leaders and
facilitate conversations with experts on topics including
digital wellbeing, mental health and work and beyond.
2021 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 31
Employee Benefits We continue to offer programs with a renewed focus on • Access to virtual health and wellness coaching and a
flexibility and mental health. Our benefits vary by location mobile app-based mindfulness training program
and may include:
• On-demand webinars, workshops and resources
Our employees are our most important asset, and we
focusing on mindfulness
continue to enhance and evolve our Total Rewards • 20 service days for backup child and elder care
compensation programs to attract and retain a talented • Dedicated wellbeing time at the end of each work • Work From Another Location, allowing employees to
and engaged workforce. In addition to competitive base week for employees to devote to their personal or work from another location for up to 4 weeks out of the
salary and bonus plans, financial benefits include a stock professional needs year, with manager approval
purchase plan, available to 97 percent of our employees Additionally, at Visa we support our employees in the
• Paid full day off work to vote in national elections,
worldwide, and a 401(k) plan with matching contributions U.S. by supporting their family life. Visa Benefits package
expanded from half day in 2020
for U.S.-based employees. now includes services from WINFertility, a family
• A Mental Health and Wellbeing Community, to enable
planning service that provides family planning support
employees to connect and support each other and
and medical services regardless of medical necessity or
to help to remove the stigma associated with mental
relationship status.
health needs
For comprehensive information about employee benefits,
• Free therapy sessions through the Employee
please visit Visa’s Benefits website.
Assistance Program
2021 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 32
Employee Safety Visa’s support for our employees’ safety includes providing
employees with the information and resources necessary
for them to work effectively and safely. To promote healthy
Visa has a long-standing commitment to protecting the remote work environments, Visa increased flexibility in
physical safety, mental health and wellbeing of our global schedules, encouraged individuals to collaborate with
workforce. Responsibility and oversight of employee safety managers to balance professional and personal obligations
resides with the Visa Global Security and Safety (GSS) and launched “Wellbeing Hours” to encourage schedule
team, which promotes the safety of Visa’s employees flexibility at the end of the work week.
and contingent workers by establishing health and safety
practices. In 2021, we expanded the employee headcount Visa also maintains an Ergonomics Program that provides
in health and safety, emergency preparedness and security educational information and assistance to help employees
operations teams. create an environment in which they can work comfortably
and productively from anywhere.
The GSS team maintains a global Safety, Health and
Environmental policy and provides relevant training to the The Program includes an online office ergonomics
executive team and key employees. Visa assesses and training to guide employees on how to identify potential
manages safety risks, provides security measures and opportunities to improve working habits and adjust
oversees emergency response by monitoring: workspaces. Upon completion of the training, employees
receive a personal plan on how to address identified
• Emerging security threats, such as natural disasters, civil ergonomic issues.
unrest and terrorist attacks identified through security,
government and media sources To track our health and safety performance, Visa conducts
both monthly and annual audits of our health and safety
• Personnel on business travel and employees who are
equipment and facilities. Each month we track and audit
working outside their home countries
our near misses, injuries and worker compensation claims.
• Company assets, including facilities and strategic
third-party sites
2021 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 33
Protecting the Planet
3344
Visa recognizes the importance of protecting our Our Goals
planet and natural resources and of supporting
Visa continues to aim to be among global corporate leaders in our efforts in this decisive decade of action.
climate action.
We focus our efforts on delivering on our corporate climate-focused goals and aspirations:
We continue to use our products, services, network,
Carbon neutral operations
expertise, brand and partnerships to minimize the
Maintain carbon neutrality of our operations (greenhouse gas emissions scopes 1 and 2
environmental footprint of our operations, inspire
as well as the business travel and employee commuting components of scope 3).
and empower sustainable commerce and support
the global transition to a low-carbon economy. Net Zero emissions by 2040
Eliminate the footprint from our scopes 1, 2 and 3 emissions.
Our priorities include:
Climate positive company
• Sustainable Operations
Support positive climate action beyond our operational footprint by leveraging our products,
• Sustainable Commerce
services, network and other resources.
Visa’s net zero by 2040 goal is aligned with global standards and definitions and will include efforts with suppliers to abate
a significant portion of the greenhouse gas footprint of the Company’s purchased goods and services. Visa also has set
science-based targets through the Science Based Target initiative (SBTi) at the 1.5 degree Celsius ambition level—targets that
were approved by SBTi in May 2022.
2021 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 35
Sustainable Operations Visa’s data centers account for more than half of our total
electricity consumption and are an important focus of
our sustainability efforts. In 2021, we achieved year-over­
Our initiatives to deliver on our corporate goals for year improvements in our data center energy efficiency,
environmental stewardship and climate action begin with measured by power usage effectiveness (PUE), as a
our efforts within Visa. We take a proactive approach to result of programs such as upgrading our cooling and server
reducing the environmental footprint from our business equipment. We have also piloted and evaluated innovations
activities, which primarily include data centers and offices, like direct expansion, dry mode cooling and immersion
employee commuting, business travel, corporate events cooling to improve our energy and/or water efficiency.
and purchased goods and services.
Globally, the PUE in our data centers has improved by 17
percent over the past four years.
Greening Our Offices
& Data Centers
Visa is committed to reducing the environmental impact
of our offices and data centers by focusing on green
building design and operation and managing energy
and water use. Our approach includes obtaining the
U.S. Green Building Council’s Leadership in Energy and
Environmental Design (LEED), BREEAM, Green Mark or
equivalent certifications for the design, construction and Visa Power Usage Effectiveness
build-out of our office facilities. We use green building
standards and guidelines to increase resource use 2.5 U.K.
efficiency within our existing buildings. 1.84 U.S. – East
2 1.67 1.63
1.56 1.52 U.S. – Central
As of September 30, 2021, Visa owned or leased 123 office
1.5 Global
locations in 77 countries around the world, including three Weighted
Average
data centers. At the end of 2021, approximately 75 percent 1
of Visa’s owned or leased square footage achieved or was
.5
pending green building certification.
0
2017 2018 2019 2020 2021
The average PUE value represents a weighted average, based on the reported PUE metrics and total energy consumption at each of our data center locations.
2021 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 36
Renewable Electricity Travel & Events
Visa continues to meet our goal (first announced in 2018) of Though corporate travel and employee commuting Green Bond
purchasing 100 percent renewable electricity for our offices remained largely paused throughout 2021, we continued
and data centers through participation in utility renewable to identify, enable and encourage more sustainable travel
In 2020, Visa issued our inaugural $500 million green
energy programs and through the purchase of renewable and commuting behavior among our employees, including
bond — believed to be the first green bond issued by a
energy certificates. mode switching and staying at green certified hotels. digital payments network — to finance initiatives that
enable sustainable commerce and the transition to
In 2021, we signed a multi-year agreement with MP2 As part of our efforts to reduce emissions from our air
low-carbon operations and economy.
Energy to power Visa’s largest data center – accounting travel, in September 2021, Visa joined the World Economic
for 45 percent of our electricity usage – with 100 Forum’s (WEF) Clean Skies for Tomorrow Coalition as We intend for our projects to align with the eligibility
percent renewable electricity from new solar generation a signatory to advance the commercial scale of viable categories of the International Capital Market
facilities. The agreement signals the next phase for Visa production of Sustainable Aviation Fuel (SAF) for broad Association’s Green Bond Principles, a voluntary
framework that provides guidance and best
advancing its sustainability priorities, including supporting adoption in the industry. Through the Coalition, we
practices for issuing Green Bonds. Specifically, we
additional renewable electricity capacity to the grid, while are joining with our peer members to contribute to
are using the green bond, due in 2027, to finance
positively impacting the environment and local economic accelerating the supply and use of SAF to reach
green building projects, energy and water efficiency
development through job creation. 10 percent of global jet aviation fuel supply by 2030.
improvements, expanded use of renewable energy,
Additionally, in December 2021, Visa joined the United
clean transportation, employee commuter programs,
Visa addresses the remainder of our renewable energy
Airlines Eco-Skies Alliance and committed to reducing the
environmentally-friendly technologies and initiatives
requirements through utility partnerships and the
carbon emissions from our business travel on the carrier by
focused on sustainable consumer behaviors.
purchase of certified renewable energy certificates (RECs)
helping to fund the green premium for SAF.
across over 30 different markets. In 2021, we published our first Green Bond Report
Visa helps eligible employees reduce the emissions from detailing the use of proceeds thus far. Our initial use of
While we have achieved our goal of purchasing 100
their commutes, including through providing subsidies for the green bond proceeds helped us achieve carbon
percent renewable electricity, our multi-year approach
public transit and bicycle commuting and access to electric neutrality and transition to 100 percent renewable
remains focused on identifying opportunities to expand
vehicle chargers in select locations. electricity across our global operations.
investments and/or enrollments in renewable electricity
offerings, including through long-term renewable
electricity purchase agreements, and reduce our purchase
of unbundled RECs.
Visa also continues to champion the overall corporate
renewable energy movement, including through our
membership in the RE100 and support of the Clean Energy
Buyers Association.
2021 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 37
Employees Our efforts to engage suppliers include incorporating
environmental sustainability expectations in the Visa
Visa strives to inspire our employees around the world
Supplier Code of Conduct, which suppliers receive during
to be sustainability champions and advocates in the
the onboarding process, and Visa’s participation in the
workplace, at home and in our communities. We do so
Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Supply Chain program.
throughout the year by offering webinars, emails, videos
Through the CDP Supply Chain program, we engage
and chat sessions to share tips and suggestions for
our leading suppliers around measuring their emissions
integrating sustainability into employees’ daily routines.
footprint, setting targets, reporting to the CDP and
attributing their footprint back to Visa.
Each April, we host our global Visa Earth Month series of
events, including the Earth Month Speaker Series focused
Since joining the CDP Supply Chain program, Visa
on topics such as the state of the planet, the emergence of
has expanded outreach to suppliers who represent
the sustainable consumer and the role that fintech can play
approximately two-thirds of Visa’s emissions as
in sustainability and our Earth Month Eco-Challenge, which
calculated by spend.
asks employees to make simple commitments to help
reduce their footprint and to support Visa’s commitments
Our Results
to sustainability.
To measure and manage our environmental impact,
In 2021, we created a new sustainability learning path within
Visa has conducted a global environmental footprint
Visa University, our training and development platform.
assessment with support from leading third-party firms
The new learning path is designed to give employees a
each year since 2008. We measure our global energy
foundation in topics and solutions related to sustainability
and water use, waste production, landfill diversion and
and climate change.
GHG emissions. Our energy and GHG emissions are
verified by an independent third party. The 2021 GHG
Suppliers
Verification Statement is publicly available on our website
and included in the Appendix of this report.
Visa recognizes the importance of addressing the emissions
from our purchased goods and services, which make up
94 percent of Visa’s scope 3 emissions. To that end, Visa
engages with our suppliers to help them measure and report
their emissions and to set Science Based Targets.
2021 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 38
Energy & Greenhouse Gas Emissions
Around the world, momentum continues to accelerate behind the need to take urgent action on climate OOppeerraattiioonnaall EEmmiissssiioonnss ((MMTTCCOO₂₂ee))
change and transition to a low-carbon economy. Visa is responding by taking serious action to reduce
GHG emissions, including achieving carbon neutrality across our operations for the first time in 2020. 100,000 94,469 Scope 1
78,750 79,497 76,465 80,551 84,231 Scope 2
80,000 64,286 69,095 63,414 60,128 59,803 Carbon Offsets
This achievement, which includes the footprint from our scope 1, scope 2 and the employee 60,000
commuting/business travel components of scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions, is the result of ongoing 40,000
energy efficiency initiatives, our transition to 100 percent renewable electricity and limited use of carbon 20,000 13,914
4,018
0
offsets to cover our residual footprint. Our carbon offsets portfolio spans regions in which we operate
-20,000
and includes projects such as forest management in the U.S., reforestation in Uruguay, renewable -19,154
-40,000
energy generation in Turkey, China and India and clean cookstove initiatives in Kenya and Uganda. -46,100
-60,000
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021
We use international standards, including the GHG Protocol, to measure and report GHG emissions
associated primarily with our energy usage, business travel and employee commuting.
In 2021, we used approximately 646,000 gigajoules (GJ) of energy from electricity, natural gas and other OOppeerraattiioonnaall EEmmiissssiioonnss RReellaattiivvee ttoo 22000099 ((MMTTCCOO₂₂ee))
fuels – an eight percent decrease in consumption compared to 2020.
0% Absolute
-10% Emissions
-20% MTCO2e per
Our energy intensity per square foot, a commonly used metric that adjusts for growth, improved by 10 -30% square foot
percent year-over-year, the seventh consecutive year of improvement. -- 540 0% % M emTC plO o2 ye e ep er
-60% MTCO2e per
Our scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions, measured in absolute terms with a market-based approach, were -- 870 0% % M rei vll eio nn u d e ollar
-90%
4,000 metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent (MTCO2e) in 2021. This represents a 71 percent decrease -100%
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021
year-over-year from 2020—largely driven by the achievement of our goal to transition to 100 percent
renewable electricity.
In 2021, Visa responded to the CDP Climate Change questionnaire for the 11th consecutive year and
was named to the CDP A-List for the first time. Visa’s CDP response is available on the websites of SSccooppee 33 EEmmiissssiioonnss ((MMTTCCOO₂₂ee))
Visa and CDP.
600,000 Employee commuting
527,741
500,000 462,604 Business Travel
405,915
400,000 Waste generated in operations
320,987
300,000 F (nu oe tl - ia nn cd lu- de en de r ig ny S- cre ol pat ree d 1 oa rc 2ti )v ities
200,000 Purchased Goods and Services
100,000 Downstream leased assets
0
2018 2019 2020 2021
2021 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 39
Water
We recognize the importance of protecting water as a shared resource, particularly in water-
Total Water Usage (Million Gallons)
constrained areas. Although as a payments technology company Visa’s business is not
water intensive, we do implement data-driven strategies to reduce the total water use at our
94.4
offices and data centers. 100 87.6 82.6 89.7 90.1 82.1 Reclaimed
80 18% 23% 25% 26% 71.8 Potable
28% 30%
In 2021, we used an estimated 38,950,000 gallons of potable water in our global portfolio. million 60
gallons 46%
We largely attribute our 32 percent potable water usage decrease year-over-year to o uf sw aa gt eer 40 82% 77% 72% 75% 74% 70%
temporary office closures. By facility type, 77 percent of potable water use occurred in our 20 54%
offices, while 23 percent occurred in our data centers, in which we use a significant amount 0
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021
of reclaimed water.
Change in Potable Water Use Relative to 2015
In 2021, 46% of Visa’s total water usage came
10% Gallons
0%
from reclaimed water. Gallons per
-10% square foot
-20% Gallons per
-30% employee
-40% Gallons per
-50% m revill eio nn u edollar
-60%
Waste
-70%
-80%
While not a major producer of solid waste, Visa continues to reduce the amount of office 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021
waste we dispose of in landfills each year. Visa works to reduce waste streams at our
office facilities and data centers through thoughtful design of our spaces and kitchenettes,
engaging with our food service providers, reducing single-use items and plastics and by
Waste by Destination
engaging employees through education and awareness building.
In 2021, we achieved a landfill diversion rate of 43 percent, or 22.9 kg per employee.
Diversion rate per employee is calculated based on the total amount of Visa’s operational 52 % 20 % 23 % 5 %
waste that is recycled, reused or composted in the reporting year divided by the total Landfilled Recycled/ Composted Incinerated
reused
number of employees. This does not include waste that is landfilled or incinerated.
598 Metric Tons
2021 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 40
Sustainable Commerce • Collaboration and partnerships: Shaping and creating to embed sustainability into physical payment cards and
new services and solutions with others help enable sustainable features in payment accounts.
Highlights of our 2021 progress include:
• Narrative and advocacy: Using corporate influence to
Visa continues to expand our initiatives toward being a
shape the broader landscape for the net zero transition
climate positive company by embedding sustainability • Expanded partnership with ecolytiq offering bank and
across our business. Our existing efforts to support a low- Highlights of our efforts in 2021 include the following: financial institutions an all-in-one Sustainable-as-a-
carbon future across our network include: Service® solution to empower their customers to take
For the third year, Visa participated as a design partner
climate action.
• Research & Insights: Supporting and/or conducting in GlobeScan’s Healthy and Sustainable Living Study,
• Announced the launch of Visa Eco Benefits to allow
research to understand barriers to and drivers of which focused on attitudes, opinions and behaviors
account issuers to add sustainability-focused benefits
sustainable living behaviors linked to healthier and more sustainable lifestyles and
to existing Visa cardholder credit/debit products toward
reached 30,000+ consumers spanning 31 markets.
• Cards & Accounts: Embedding sustainability features in the goal of enabling their cardholders to engage in
payment cards and accounts Visa partnered with third-party research firms to conduct sustainable consumption.
• Sustainable Behaviors: Global initiatives supporting bespoke research on consumer attitudes toward • Continued to support the introduction and uptake by
sustainable behaviors, such as in mobility and travel sustainability features in payments accounts, starting in our clients of sustainable materials for physical payment
four markets. We continue to disseminate the results of
• Global Movement: Using our platforms, partnerships cards, including the CPI Card Group’s payment card
this work to our clients and partners.
and sponsorships to inspire and empower sustainable composed of up to 98 percent upcycled plastic.
living among millions of consumers Visa collaborated with the Cambridge Institute for
Sustainability Leadership (CISL) to identify new
Research & Insights opportunities for electronic payments and networks to
support a sustainable future. As a result of this work, CISL
Visa’s approach to enabling sustainable commerce
identified four roles that payment networks can play to
begins with our efforts to help the broader payments and
bridge the “opportunity gap” by enabling net zero solutions.
commerce ecosystem understand the barriers to and
drivers of sustainable living behaviors—particularly among Read the CISL report, Payments for Net Zero: How the
consumers—and the opportunities for digital payments to payments industry can contribute to the transition to a net
support a low-carbon economy. zero economy, to learn more.
• Empower citizens: Through product and service
Cards & Accounts
innovation, as well as the provision of information and
choice architecture
As a global payments network, we believe we can play
• Provision of data-driven insights: Payments data- an important role in helping consumers and businesses
driven products and services shift to more sustainable behaviors through our efforts
2021 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 41
Sustainable Behaviors Travel & Tourism Public Policy
Visa continued our efforts to help advance sustainable At Visa, we believe in the importance of supporting public
In addition to our efforts to support sustainable commerce
travel and tourism through our founding partner role policy dialogue as part of our approach to sustainable
through incorporating sustainability features in payment
with Travalyst, a sustainable travel and tourism initiative commerce, decarbonization and net zero. In 2021, we
cards and accounts, Visa also continues to work in areas
founded by the Duke of Sussex together with Skyscanner, continued our participation in the Energy and Environment
where we believe our products, services, network,
Booking.com, Trip.com Group and TripAdvisor. Coordinating Committee of the Business Roundtable
expertise and/or brand platform can play a role.
(BRT), the Sustainable Finance Working Group of the
Highlights from 2021 include: Visa also launched the Visa for Athens sustainable tourism
Institute for International Finance (IIF) and various
initiative, contributed to the Net Zero Roadmap of the
sustainability-focused working groups of the Information
Urban Mobility
World Travel & Tourism Council and served as a member
Technology Industry Council (ITI).
Visa is working to bring digital payments to citizens’
of the World Economic Forum’s Global Agenda Council for
door-to-door journeys, to reduce emissions and address
Sustainable Tourism.
climate change. In 2021, Visa continued to work with transit
agencies in more than 400 cities worldwide to support
Global Movement
sustainable mobility through contactless ticketing and fare
payment solutions.
Visa remains committed to helping build and support the
overall sustainable living movement. Highlights of our
In 2021, Visa continued our partnership with the Global
progress in 2021 include:
Resilient Cities Network (GRCN) to help cities become more
resilient to the physical, environmental, social and economic
Industry Initiatives
challenges of the 21st century.
In 2021, Visa joined the World Business Council for
Sustainable Development, a global, CEO-led organization
Electric Vehicle Charging (EVC)
of over 200 leading businesses working together to
Visa is supporting the global transition to electric vehicles,
accelerate the transition to a sustainable world. Visa also
by partnering with leading participants in the EVC
continued to serve as a Founding Partner of and contributor
ecosystem through enhancing the customer payment
to Brands for Good, an initiative of Sustainable Brands
experience at charging stations. In 2021, Visa continued
focused on building a movement among leading brands
to expand usage of a dedicated merchant category code
to make sustainable living more attractive, rewarding and
for EVC, jointly published a white paper on open loop
attainable. Visa’s Chief Sustainability Officer became a
payments for EVC, conducted a study on EVC challenges
founding member of the Adweek Sustainability Council, a
and opportunities and served as lead supporter of the
group comprised of CMOs and heads of sustainability from
EV Summit. As we entered 2022, Visa also announced
the world’s top brands working to address responsible
our joining as the first payments community member of
environmental practices, social purpose and equality, as
CharIN, an international charging initiative working with all
well as the NYSE Sustainability Advisory Council.
parts of the e-mobility value chain.
2021 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 42
Alignment with Task designed to enable and encourage cardholders to engage Metrics & Targets
in sustainable consumption behaviors. This new account
Force on Climate- In 2021, we formally submitted near-term GHG reduction
benefits bundle expands Visa’s sustainability solutions for
targets to the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi). The
Related Financial clients as part of our climate positive goal.
targets — covering scopes 1, 2, and 3 emissions and in line
Disclosures (TCFD) We continue to monitor and assess climate-related risks with a 1.5°C pathway — were approved by SBTi in May 2022.
and opportunities and embed these considerations
In addition, Visa has set a goal to achieve net-zero
into our business strategy decisions. See our inaugural
emissions by 2040, 10 years ahead of the Paris Climate
Green Bond report for information on the financing of our
Governance Agreement goal. This goal covers both direct operations
climate-related objectives.
and our supply chain.
Throughout 2021, Visa focused on increasing Board
engagement and education on climate-related issues Risk Management We have further developed our approach to 100%
through quarterly ESG updates to the Nominating and renewable electricity to focus on renewable electricity
Corporate Governance Committee, which meets at least Visa maintains an Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) procurement options at our largest facilities and data
quarterly and has formal responsibility for and oversight Framework to identify, assess, treat, monitor and report centers, such as utility and renewable programs, and to
of corporate responsibility and sustainability policies, on substantive risks. Prior to FY21, we conducted a deep rely less on unbundled renewable energy certificates.
programs and reporting, including those related to dive into our climate-related risks and opportunities in This demonstrates that Visa is evolving our approach to
climate change. alignment with the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial renewable electricity procurement to help ensure that our
Disclosures (TCFD). This exercise analyzed both direct and
purchases support renewable electricity generation in the
These updates cover internal climate-related goals, indirect climate-related risks and opportunities across our
areas where we operate.
initiatives and external developments, including on entire business for Business as Usual and 2-Degree climate
climate-related goals, initiatives and risk. Our Chief scenarios. We aim to update the TCFD assessment on a The largest area of impact in our value chain lies with
Sustainability Officer communicates directly with the periodic basis and leverage the findings into our existing our suppliers. We are expanding on associated metrics,
Board and continues to help formalize oversight and ERM process to inform our business planning. including improved measurement and management of
governance of climate-related topics within Visa. emissions and emissions targets globally.
As an outcome of this analysis, Visa has taken notable
steps to reduce upstream risks in our supply chain. As part of our goal to reach net-zero emissions by 2040, in
Strategy
Beginning in 2018 we began collaborating with CDP to 2021 Visa became a new signatory of The Climate Pledge,
collect supplier-specific data. Additionally, through our an initiative co-founded by Amazon and Global Optimism,
Visa’s global sustainability strategy centers on our goals
supplier engagement program, we anticipate that we will as well as a new member of the Climate Business Network,
of achieving net-zero emissions by 2040 and maintaining
continue to utilize the CDP Supply Chain survey to collect a World Wildlife Fund (WWF) initiative to accelerate action
carbon neutral operations, while limiting use of offsets.
direct data from our suppliers, enhance ESG language in toward a net-zero future.
We harness our global brand and initiatives to drive our Supplier Code of Conduct, develop supplier scorecards,
decarbonization efforts and promote sustainable practices create educational materials on climate topics for internal
beyond our direct operations. An example of these and external stakeholders and develop individualized
actions was the launch of Visa Eco Benefits, a new package engagement approaches on climate topics for our
of sustainability-focused benefits for account issuers top suppliers.
Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 43
Operating Responsibly
4444
Corporate Governance Visa’s Corporate Governance Guidelines establish various Board Diversity
limits on our directors serving on publicly traded company
Visa strives to reflect the diversity of our global key
boards and audit committees. We limit our directors
Visa’s corporate governance practices help promote to serving on four publicly-traded company boards constituencies, including clients, customers, employees,
long-term value and strong Board and management (including Visa), or two for executive officers of publicly- business partners and stockholders, in the makeup of
accountability to our diverse set of stakeholders. Our traded companies (including Visa). The Board may grant our Board. To support this objective, the Nominating and
Board of Directors oversees and monitors important exceptions to established limits on a case-by-case basis. Corporate Governance Committee considers women and
governance issues, including risk management, board candidates from underrepresented groups in the pool from
composition and refreshment, executive and Board To best serve our shareholders, employees which the Committee considers director candidates. As
compensation and ESG matters. and customers, the Board periodically reviews and of April 2022, Visa’s overall board diversity (gender, race,
evaluates its internal leadership structure and Lead ethnicity) is at 64%, with gender diversity specifically at 36%.
We regularly monitor our corporate governance Independent Director responsibilities.
policies and practices to confirm we meet or exceed the
requirements of applicable laws and the New York Stock Our current Board committees include Audit and Risk,
Exchange's listing standards and that we are responsive Compensation, Finance, and Nominating and Corporate
to investors. Visa’s corporate governance framework, Governance. All four Board committees are composed
including our Corporate Governance Guidelines, solely of independent directors. Each committee operates
exemplifies our commitment to these standards. pursuant to a written charter, available on the Investor
Relations page of our website.
Board Structure
As of May 2022, Visa’s Board of Directors is an 11-member
Snapshot of Directors
board with 10 independent members. Al Kelly serves as
our Chief Executive Officer and Chair of the Board, and
INDEPENDENCE TENURE DIVERSITY
John Lundgren serves as our Lead Independent Director,
responsible for providing independent leadership to
the Board. Our directors exhibit an effective mix of skills, 1 3 4 4 3
qualifications, perspectives and experience in payments,
91 7.2 36 27
% % %
technology, finance and ESG.
Independent Years Gender Race and
average Ethnicity
10 4 7 8
Non-Independent Independent < 5 years 5-9 years 9+ years Women Men Non-White White
Data as of April 11, 2022.
2021 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 45
Board & Executive Compensation Our commitment to ethics and compliance is captured in Visa measures and monitors ethical behavior through the
Programs & Philosophy our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (Code), which use of Regional Scorecard metrics that have direct impact
applies to everyone working with or on behalf of Visa, on performance rating decisions and associated bonus of
Visa’s approach to executive compensation includes a
including employees, contingent staff and the Board of first line business leaders. Every quarter, our Compliance
recognition that ESG practices are important elements of
Directors. We provide a Code of Business Conduct and leaders review status of progress against agreed upon
long-term corporate strategy and contribute to Visa being
Ethics training to improve employee knowledge and goals with the regional president and country managers,
a sustainable and responsible company. Annual goals
retention of content, achieving a 100% completion rate for and report at year end on achievement of those goals to
incorporate and promote ESG factors that are relevant
all eligible Visa employees. the Visa Chairman and CEO and President. These metrics,
to the Company’s strategic objectives, such as: inclusion
together with similar metrics from Controllership, Risk,
and diversity; employee leadership and development; The Code includes a supplemental Code of Ethics for
and Audit, directly impact the compensation of business
employee health, safety, productivity and engagement; Certain Executives and Financial Officers, which requires
leaders in the organization.
cybersecurity and data privacy; sustainability and climate; senior officers to engage in honest and ethical conduct in
financial inclusion and access; and corporate governance. performing their duties and provides guidelines for the
ethical handling of conflicts of interest and reporting of
For more on our approach to executive compensation, please
unethical conduct. Additionally, Visa’s Supplier Code In early 2022, Visa was named
refer to page 7 of the report and our 2022 Proxy Statement.
of Conduct further explains our expectations and
values to suppliers. to the World’s Most Ethical
Ethics & Compliance We maintain a confidential compliance hotline, operated Companies list by Ethisphere
by a third party, to allow anyone to share questions,
Institute for the tenth
concerns or comments online or by phone, 24 hours a day,
We work to maintain the trust of our stakeholders
seven days a week. Additionally, our “Speak Up” Campaign consecutive year.
through our culture of honesty and integrity, in which we
aims to empower employees to report misconduct. Our
hold ourselves to the highest ethical standards, and by
updated Global Ethical Manager Toolkit helps leaders
continuously strengthening our ethics and
engage in team discussions related to ethics.
compliance program.
We continue to strengthen our approach to embed
Visa’s global compliance program provides processes
ethics and compliance into enterprise-wide management
and controls to manage legal and regulatory risk, drive
processes and business leader performance scorecards.
an ethical culture and empower the business to achieve
In 2021, Visa reinforced its commitment to ethical
Visa’s objectives legally and with integrity. The Office of the
operations while transitioning to a primarily virtual
Chief Ethics & Compliance Officer, along with the business
business environment.
leadership, is responsible for Visa’s global compliance and
ethics program.
2021 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 46
Engaging with perspectives and contribute to policy dialogue on the future
of payments, small business enablement, sustainability and
Visa once again earned
Governments
digital equity and inclusion, among other issues.
"Trendsetter" status on the 2021
In 2021, Visa participated in a range of collaborative
Visa actively engages with governments, officials, CPA-Zicklin Index of Corporate efforts, including:
policymakers and stakeholders across the world to
help shape the future of digital payments. Through our Political Disclosure and • Contributing to the World Economic Forum’s Data for
partnerships, we foster innovation and find opportunities Common Purpose Initiative, including the development
Accountability with a perfect
to drive digital transformation and further enable access to and publication of novel frameworks for responsible
financial services. score of 100. data marketplaces.
• Supporting the World Economic Forum’s Trade and
Visa is committed to transparency around our political
Visa contributes its expertise in digital payments to Investment platform to support Payments to Advance
involvement. We publish an annual Visa Inc. Corporate
help government partners advance their development Growth for All, focused on the growth of digital
Political Contributions Report, which includes a listing
goals, such as supporting the government of Japan in payments in Latin America.
of all U.S. trade associations to which Visa pays annual
increasing the percentage of payments made digitally
membership dues that are $25,000 or more, and, if • Sponsoring D.C. Fintech Week, an event supporting
to 40 percent by 2025.
applicable, the portion of dues that were used for political dialogue on the nexus of fintech innovation and digital
expenditures. In the United States, we disclose all Through Visa University, we also provide training and equity and inclusion.
contributions made by Visa’s Political Action Committee outreach programs to governments and policymakers • Collaborating with the Institute of International Finance on
(PAC) in accordance with the requirements of the Federal around the world to allow us to foster the exchange of a Strategic Framework for Digital Economic Cooperation.
Election Commission. In 2021, we made updates to our ideas on legal and economic aspects of digital
• Contributing to the Official Monetary and Financial
PAC Giving Criteria for proposed contributions, which was financial services.
Institutions Forum’s December 2021 marquee “Future
approved by the Board.
Visa also engages in strategic partnerships with a wide range of Payments” report, including a Visa Economic
of international and multilateral organizations, universities, Empowerment Institute paper on digital remittances
think tanks and other policy organizations to share and a series of speaking engagements.
2021 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 47
Tax Compliance & Responsible Sourcing EcoVadis, a leading supply chain-focused ESG ratings
organization, to collect data and measure the ESG impact
Governance
in our supply chain.
Beyond Visa operations, our commitment to operate
responsibly and sustainably extends to our suppliers and Visa has expanded its engagement with our top suppliers
Relationships are at the heart of Visa’s business. We know
business partners. In 2021, we continued implementation around climate change and other environmental issues.
that trust must be continuously earned and are committed
of the Supplier Code of Conduct (Supplier Code) and We include environmental criteria for consideration in
to being a transparent and reliable partner in business and
focused on maintaining our supplier relationships requests for proposal as part of weighted scoring for
in engagement with governments and the communities
throughout the pandemic. suppliers in addition to diversity and social responsibility.
we serve. Visa operates globally and seeks to comply with
applicable laws, regulations and requirements, including Our global Supplier Code outlines our expectations in
Supplier Diversity
those related to tax, around the world. areas including human rights, employment practices,
environmental impact, supplier diversity, conflicts of
Expanding engagement with diverse suppliers is a priority
A global team of tax professionals, in close coordination
interest and other aspects of responsible business. We
business imperative that adds value to our brand, provides
with business units, manages tax affairs in every Visa
reference the Supplier Code in our global Governing
a competitive advantage and reflects our customer base.
region. Everyone working for, or on behalf of, Visa shares a
Agreements with suppliers and in our Global Sourcing
We strive to include inclusion and diversity provisions in
responsibility to follow our Code of Business Conduct and
Policy. We also send the Supplier Code to new suppliers
new sourcing agreements in North America operations and
Ethics and work with integrity. Visa has a zero-tolerance
during their onboarding process.
commit to working with qualified suppliers who fully meet
approach to tax evasion or the facilitation of tax evasion.
the criteria established in our Supplier Diversity Program.
Tax oversight resides with management, including relevant When identifying new suppliers to work with Visa, we aim
Visa partners with a third-party supplier to provide up to
oversight committees, and ultimately the Board of Directors. to partner with suppliers that share the same respect for
date information on supplier diversity certifications for
human rights, including those principles recognized in
In addition to following the letter of the law, we strive to our suppliers, allowing us to report more accurately with
international human rights standards such as the Universal
adhere to the spirit of tax laws. Visa insists on adherence independently validated data.
Declaration of Human Rights. Suppliers’ approaches to
to our values, honoring our commitments, and avoiding
human rights should be consistent with the UN Guiding
activities that could adversely affect our reputation. We
Principles on Business and Human Rights. Suppliers are
make tax planning decisions in a manner that is consistent
expected to comply with all applicable legal requirements
with Visa’s commercial business and economic activities,
related to human rights.
evaluating the tax implications and risks related to
potential transactions. In 2021, Visa took additional steps to engage prospective
and existing suppliers to understand their current
Visa’s statement on tax compliance and governance is
integration of various ESG topics and plans to improve.
available online at visa.com/esg under Operating Responsibly.
To complement these efforts, we are partnering with
2021 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 48
As part of Visa’s Stand Together Initiative, we have made Human Rights
significant investments in and commitments to fostering a
diverse supplier base. Our progress on the following goals
is reported internally to the Visa Executive Committee on We recognize our responsibility to respect and, where
a quarterly basis, identifying progress and opportunities for possible, promote human rights across our company,
continuous improvement. operations and supply chain, including standards identified
in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the
• Requesting diverse account teams for preferred International Labour Organization Declaration on the
suppliers and partners. Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. Our approach
• Increasing the number of diverse suppliers in our to respecting human rights is informed by the United
network, and thereby increasing Visa spend with Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights
these suppliers. (Guiding Principles).
• Requiring diverse sourcing options for spend across RFPs. Visa's cross-functional Human Rights Working Group
(HRWG) oversees our overall approach, including risk
We encourage our prime non-diverse suppliers to
identification, mitigation and due diligence strategy.
establish relationships with, and commit a percentage
The HRWG shares progress with members of the Visa
of expenditures to, diverse suppliers. Prime suppliers
executive team and Board of Directors on a regular basis.
participating in our Second-Tier Initiative report
The Board’s Nominating and Corporate Governance
information and data on their specific use of small and
Committee provides human rights oversight as part
diverse suppliers. We have implemented a system to track
of its overarching ESG responsibility, as detailed in the
Visa spend with diverse Tier II suppliers.
Committee’s Charter.
Visa also invests in tools and memberships with diverse
We completed our most recent triennial Human
supplier certification organizations like the National
Rights Impact Assessment in 2020. Through this global
Minority Supplier Development Council, Women’s
assessment—conducted in accordance with the Guiding
Business Enterprise National Council, National LGBT
Principles—we identify and review salient human rights
Chamber of Commerce and Western Regional Minority
risks resulting from our operations, network, supply chain,
Supplier Development Council.
partnerships and sponsorships.
In 2021, Visa expanded Supplier Diversity programs to
additional regions beyond North America, designing and
developing reporting criteria and qualifications based
on data availability. The expansion focused on small and
micro businesses owned by historically underrepresented
individuals. For example, an area of focus in South Africa
was on women and the Broad Based Black Economic
Empowerment program.
2021 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 49
Informed by this assessment, our human rights strategy In 2021, Visa advanced our human rights due diligence
focuses on mitigating risks emanating from Visa’s role as a/an: approach through:
Centre for Sport
Employer • Conducting a review of the human rights implications & Human Rights
We acknowledge and respect the human rights of each of artificial intelligence (AI) and Visa’s current approach
employee. Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics to responsible AI.
outlines our employee protections and freedoms, As a sponsor of major sports bodies and events, Visa
• Collaborating with peer companies and expert
including: privacy, expression, association and maintaining remains a proud founding supporter and Advisory
stakeholders at the Centre for Sport and Human
a workplace safe from retaliation. Policies contributing to Council member of the Centre for Sport and Human
Rights as co-founding supporter and member of the
the respect of human rights of our employees include: Rights (CSHR).
Centre’s Advisory Board and Mega-Sporting Events
Harassment and Discrimination Policy; Safety, Health and
Working Group. In 2021, CSHR announced a strategic plan for the
Environmental Policy; Whistleblower Policy and Non-
• Engaging with major sporting bodies and other human period 2021-2025. The strategy outlines urgent
Retaliation Policy.
rights stakeholders to help advance human rights in challenges and trends in sport and human rights and
Purchaser major sporting events. describes how CSHR will seek to address them in
We acknowledge and respect the human rights of cooperation with its global network. CSHR’s approach
• Reviewing Visa’s approach to human rights due diligence
workers in our supply chain. Our Supplier Code outlines is rooted in international standards, including the
in select high risk markets.
our expectations for suppliers including safe working United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and
conditions and respect of human rights. We publish an annual UK Modern Slavery Act Transparency Human Rights, as well as a shared commitment to
Statement, highlighting our efforts to help ensure slavery the Sporting Chance Principles.
E-Payments Enabler and human trafficking are not taking place in our business
As financial crimes can support and contribute to human and across our supply chain.
rights abuses such as human trafficking, we are committed
to preventing illegal activities on our network.
Business Partner and Sponsor
We incorporate respect for human rights into the
expectations of and engagement with our partnerships
and sponsorships, including issues at the intersection of
sport and human rights.
2021 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 50
Appendix
5511
GHG Emissions Verification Statement
Page 2 Page 3
VERIFICATION OPINION DECLARATION x W StR anI/ dW aB rdC (S SD co G pere 3e )n house Gas Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Statement of independence, impartiality and competence
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS Reference Standard: mAp ae nx a gis e man e nin t d se ep rve in cd ee s n int cp lr uo df ie ns gs aio sn sa ul rs ae nr cv eic we is t h c oo vm ep r a 3n 0y yt eh aa rt s s hp ie sc toia ryliz ie ns p rin o vH ide ina glth t, h eS sa efe sty e, r vS ico ec sia . l and Environmental
To: The Stakeholders of VISA Inc. x I vS eO rif i1 c4 a0 ti6 o4 n - a3 n S de vc ao ln idd a e tiod nit i o on f g2 r0 e1 e9 n- h0 o4 u: sG er e ge asn h so tau ts ee m g ea ns tse s --Part 3: Specification with guidance for the rN eo q um ire em d b oe f r t ho isf t ah se s iv ge nr mifi ec na tt .io n W t ee a cm on h da us c tea d b tu hs isin ve es rs if ir ce ala tioti no n insh di ep p ew nit dh e nV tI lS y A a, n i dts t oD i ore uc r t ko nrs o wo lr e dM ga en a thg ee rr es hb ae sy o bn ed e nt h na ot
Apex Companies, LLC (Apex) was engaged to conduct an independent verification of the greenhouse gas (GHG) conflict of interest.
ae pm pis liesi so n tos thre ep ro er lt ae td e db iy n foV rI mSA at ioU n.S in.A cl. u dIn ec d. w(V itI hS inA ) t hf eo r s cth oe p ep oe fr i wo od r ks t da ete sd cr ib be el do w be. loT whi .s verification opinion declaration Leve xl of LA imss itu er da nce and Qualifications: A dap ye -x to h -da as y i m bup sle inm ee sn st e ad ct ia v itC ieo sd . e of Ethics across the business to maintain high ethical standards among staff in their
iaT nnh dde e pfd a ee i nrt e dpr erm e nsi tn ea vn et tio a rin t fi io c o anf t io oth f n e t h oG e n H G G tH h eGe m as ci ts a cs t ueio rm an ces y n i ts o in ft h te a hc es c o o Gl re d H ar Ge ns c p e eo mwn is i sti h sb ii otl hi nty e s o c rrf e itV pe oI rS i ra tA e. . dA ,V p I e aS x nA ’ ds i ss oo nr le e t s hrp e eo s n p us o ni nb dsl ee ib r lf i ylo i it nr y g th w e sa ysp s r t te o ep mpa srr o a v at ii ndo den x T abh ois v v ee inrif dic ica ati to on rs u sed a materiality threshold of ±5% for aggregate errors in sampled data for each of the T h exeh cae el t lhv lee a nri n tf i d uc na s dt aio efn e rs t tyt ae nia n dm fo in r gmh a oas ft i Aoe n px , et e xsn ’y sss stiv e te am nse d x aap rn de d r m ie p en ro tc hce oe dsin os le oc s go , y n h d fa ou s rc tt o hin v eg e v r ea 2s r0 is fi u cyr aea ta in orc nse oc oo f mv ge rb er i ene nen hdv o i e uro x sn p em e gre aien snt a ecl e m, iis sno s c t iohia nisl s, f die e at lh d tai c .aa nl da an nd
processes used to collect, analyze and review the information. Apex is responsible for expressing an opinion on the
GHG statement based on the verification. Verification activities applied in a limited level of assurance verification are GHG Verification Methodology:
less extensive in nature, timing and extent than in a reasonable level of assurance verification. Evidence-gathering procedures included but were not limited to: Attestation:
Boundaries of the reporting company GHG emissions covered by the verification: x Interviews with relevant personnel of VISA;
x Operational Control x Review of documentary evidence produced by VISA;
x Worldwide x Review of VISA data and information systems and methodology for collection, aggregation, analysis and Trevor Donaghu, Lead Verifier Joe Winslow, Technical Reviewer
GTy Hp Ge s E o mf i sG sH ioG ns s: SC tO a2 t emN e2O n t: CH4 HFCs,PFCs x r Ae uv die itw o fo sf ain mfo pr lm e a ot fi o dn a tu as ue sd e t do bd ye t Ve Ir Sm Ain te o G deH tG er mem ini es s Gio Hn Gs; ea mnd is sions. P A Pr p leo e ag x sr a aCm no tm M Hp ia la ln ,n a Cieg Ase ,r LLC AP A tr p lo aej ne x t c aCt ,o M Gma Apn aa ng ie er s , LLC
x Scope 1: 4,000 metric tons of CO2 equivalent January 27, 2022
x Scope 2 (Location-Based): 59,200 metric tons of CO2 equivalent
x Scope 2 (Market-Based): 0 metric tons of CO2 equivalent Verification Opinion: aT ch cis o rv de ar nifi cc ea t wio itn h s tt ha ete tm ere mn st, oin f c ol uu rd i an gg r eth ee m o ep ni tn . i Won e e cx op nr se es nse t d to h te hr ee rin e, l eis a sp ero ov fi d the id s t so t a V teIS mA e na tn bd y i s y os uo le toly C fo Dr P t h ine ob re dn ee rf i tt o o sf aV tiI sS fyA ti hn e terms
x Scope 3: B aba os ve ed : on the process and procedures conducted, there is no evidence that the GHG emissions statement shown o pf a rC tyD wP hd ois mcl ao ys u hr ae v r ee q au ccir ee sm se tn ot s th b isu t s tw ai tt eh mou et n a t.c cepting or assuming any responsibility or liability on our part to CDP or to any other
Purchased Goods & Services: 302,200 metric tons of CO2 equivalent x is not materially correct and is not a fair representation of the GHG emissions data and information; and
Capital Goods: 0 metric tons of CO2 equivalent x has not been prepared in accordance with the WRI/WBCSD GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and
Fuel & Energy Related Activities: 4,200 metric tons of CO2 equivalent Reporting Standard (Scope 1 and 2), and WRI/WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Value Chain
Waste Generated in Operations: 500 metric tons of CO2 equivalent Accounting and Reporting Standard (Scope 3).
Business Travel: 1,300 metric tons of CO2 equivalent I qt uis a no tu itr a o tivp ein dio an ta t h foa rt V deIS teA r mha ins a e tiost na b ol fi s thh ee sd e a Gpp Hr Gop eri mat ie s ss ioys nt se m fos r tf ho er t sh te a tc eo dl l pe ec rti io on d, aa ng dg r be og ua nti do an r ia en sd . analysis of
Employee Commuting: 13,000 metric tons of CO2 equivalent
Downstream Leased Assets: 12 metric tons of CO2 equivalent
Data and information supporting the Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions statement were historical in nature.
Data and information supporting the Scope 3 GHG emissions statement were in some cases estimated rather
than historical in nature.
Period covered by GHG emissions verification:
x October 1, 2020 to September 31, 2021
Criteria against which verification conducted:
x World Resources Institute (WRI)/World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD)
Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (Scope 1 and 2)
2021 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 52
ESG Framework Map
We map relevant disclosures to help stakeholders assess our performance. Visa used the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards to help guide the development of this report.
Elements of the following GRI, Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) and World Economic Forum (WEF) indicators may be partially disclosed.
General Disclosures
GRI Standard GRI Core or GRI GRI Metric SASB Code WEF Metric Location or Direct Response
Comprehensive Code
Organizational Profile
General Core 102-1 Name of the organization Visa Inc.
Disclosures
Core 102-2 Activities, brands, 2021 Annual Report: Business, pages 4-17
2016
products, and services
Core 102-3 Location of headquarters San Francisco, CA
Core 102-4 Locations of operations Corporate Profile, page 5; 2021 Annual Report: page 1 and Properties, page 31
Core 102-5 Ownership and legal form Visa Inc. (NYSE: V) is a publicly held corporation organized existing under the laws of the
State of Delaware.
Core 102-6 Markets served Corporate Profile, page 5; 2021 Annual Report: Business, page 4
Core 102-7 Scale of the organization Corporate Profile, page 5
Core 102-8 Information on TC-SI-330a.3 Dignity and Equal Opportunity Employment Report; 2022 Proxy Statement, page 10
employees and other equality
workers
Core 102-9 Supply chain 2021 Annual Report: Business, page 5; Revenue Growth Drivers. pages 7-17
Core 102-10 Significant changes to 2021 Annual Report, page 13.
the organization and its
In FY 2021, Visa acquired YellowPepper to accelerate its network of networks strategy in
supply chain
Latin American and the Caribbean. On June 24, 2021 Visa signed an agreement to acquire
Tink AB (Tink). On July 22, 2021 Visa signed a definitive agreement to acquire The Currency
Cloud Group Limited (Currencycloud).
Core 102-11 Precautionary Principle Protecting the Planet, page 34
or approach
Core 102-12 External initiatives UK Modern Slavery Act Transparency Statement
Clean Energy Buyers Association
Council for Inclusive Capitalism
Chase, United Airlines and Visa partnership to support The Human Rights Campaign,
StartOut and The Trevor Project
Core 102-13 Membership of Relevant Memberships, page 7
associations
2021 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 53
ESG Framework Map
General Disclosures
GRI Standard GRI Core or GRI GRI Metric SASB Code WEF Metric Location or Direct Response
Comprehensive Code
Strategy
General Core 102-14 Statement from senior Governing CEO Letter, page 1
Disclosures decision maker purpose
2016
Comprehensive 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and TC-SI-550a.2 Risk and 2021 Annual Report: Risk Factors pages 17-30
opportunities opportunity
oversight
Ethics and integrity
General Core 102-16 Values, principles, Visa Inc. Code of Business Conduct, Visa Inc. Supplier Code of Conduct, Anti-Bribery
Disclosures standards, and norms of Policy, Political Participation, Lobbying and Contributions Policy
2016 behavior
Comprehensive 102-17 Mechanisms for advice Ethical Ethics & Compliance, page 46
and concerns about behavior Visa’s Confidential Compliance Hotline, operated by a third party, is available in
ethics multiple languages, and online or by phone, 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
Governance
General Core 102-18 Governance structure Quality of Corporate Governance, page 45; 2022 Proxy Statement: Corporate Governance,
Disclosures governing pages 11-19
2016 body
Comprehensive 102-19 Delegating authority Our Environmental, Social & Governance Approach, ESG Oversight, page 6
Comprehensive 102-20 Executive-level Our Environmental, Social & Governance Approach, ESG Oversight, page 6
responsibility
for economic,
environmental, and social
topics
Comprehensive 102-21 Consulting stakeholders Stakeholder Engagement, page 7; 2022 Proxy Statement: Stockholder Engagement on
on economic, Corporate Governance, Corporate Responsibility, and Executive Compensation Matters,
environmental, and social pages 16-18
topics
2021 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 54
ESG Framework Map
General Disclosures
GRI Standard GRI Core or GRI GRI Metric SASB Code WEF Metric Location or Direct Response
Comprehensive Code
Governance
General Comprehensive 102-22 Composition of the Quality of 2022 Proxy Statement: Board Leadership Structure, page 11; Committees of the Board of
Disclosures highest governance body governing Directors, pages 22-28
2016 and its committees body
Comprehensive 102-23 Chair of the highest 2022 Proxy Statement: Board Leadership Structure, page 11; Committees of the Board of
governance body Directors, pages 22-28
Comprehensive 102-24 Nominating and selecting 2022 Proxy Statement: Process for Nomination of Director Candidates, page 29
the highest governance
body
Comprehensive 102-25 Conflicts of interest Visa Inc. Corporate Governance Guidelines
Comprehensive 102-35 Remuneration policies 2022 Proxy Statement: Compensation of Non-Employee Directors, pages 31-34; Executive
Compensation, pages 71-91
Comprehensive 102-36 Process for determining 2022 Proxy Statement: Highlights of our Non-Employee Director Compensation Program,
remuneration page 31;
Stakeholder Engagement
General Core 102-40 List of stakeholder Stakeholder Engagement, page 7
Disclosures groups
2016
Core 102-41 Collective bargaining Visa does not report the percentage total of employees covered by collective bargaining
agreements agreements.
Core 102-42 Identifying and selecting Our Company, page 4
stakeholders
Core 102-43 Approach to stakeholder Stakeholder Our Company, page 4
engagement engagement
Core 102-44 Key topics and concerns Our Company, page 4
raised
2021 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 55
ESG Framework Map
General Disclosures
GRI Standard GRI Core or GRI GRI Metric SASB Code WEF Metric Location or Direct Response
Comprehensive Code
Reporting Practice
General Core 102-45 Entities included in the 2021 Annual Report: Business, page 5
Disclosures consolidated financial
2016 statements
Core 102-46 Defining report content Our Company, page 4
and topic boundaries
Core 102-47 List of material topics Stakeholder The sections of this report are organized in line with the results of our materiality
engagement assessment; 2022 Proxy Statement, page 20.
Core 102-48 Restatements of Environmental data have been restated where applicable due to new data management
information practices to improve consistency.
Core 102-49 Changes in reporting This report references GRI but was not prepared in accordance with the Standards.
Core 102-50 Reporting period October 1, 2020 — September 30, 2021
Core 102-51 Date of most recent May 2021
report
Core 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual
Core 102-53 Contact point for Please direct questions on this report or topics related to our corporate responsibility
questions regarding disclosures to sustainability@visa.com.
report
Core 102-54 Claims of reporting in This report references the GRI but was not prepared in accordance with the Standards.
accordance with the GRI
Standards
Core 102-55 GRI Content Index ESG Framework Map, pages 53-64
Core 102-56 External assurance Visa does not seek external assurance. We assure report content through an internal
review process, including executive oversight of subject matter reviews and validation.
We also work with a third party to assure the following data: scope 1, scope 2 and select
scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions.
2021 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 56
ESG Framework Map
Topic-Specific Disclosures
GRI Standard GRI Core or GRI GRI Metric SASB Code WEF Metric Location or Direct Response
Comprehensive Code
Material Topic: Employee Safety & Wellbeing
Management Core 103-1, Explanation of the Employee Safety, page 33; Employee Wellbeing, page 31
Approach 103-2, material topic and its
2016 103-3 Boundary
Occupational Core 403-1 Occupational health Employee Safety, page 33; Employee Wellbeing, page 31
Health and and safety management
Safety 2019 system
Core 403-2 Hazard identification, risk Employee Safety, page 33; Employee Wellbeing, page 31
assessment, and incident
investigation
Core 403-3 Occupational health Employee Safety, page 33; Employee Wellbeing, page 31
services
Core 403-4 Worker participation, Employee Safety, page 33; Employee Wellbeing, page 31
consultation, and
communication on
occupational health and
safety
Core 403-5 Worker training on Employee Safety, page 33; Employee Wellbeing, page 31
occupational health and
safety
Core 403-6 Promotion of worker Health and Employee Safety, page 33; Employee Wellbeing, page 31
health wellbeing
Core 403-7 Prevention and mitigation Employee Safety, page 33; Employee Wellbeing, page 31
of occupational health
and safety impacts
directly linked by
business relationships
2021 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 57
ESG Framework Map
Topic-Specific Disclosures
GRI Standard GRI Core or GRI GRI Metric SASB Code WEF Metric Location or Direct Response
Comprehensive Code
Material Topic: Employee Engagement
Management Core 103-1, Explanation of the Employee Engagement, page 30
Approach 103-2, material topic and its
2016 103-3 Boundary
Training and Core 404-3 Percentage of employees Visa expects employees and managers to engage in regular check-in conversations for
Education receiving regular ongoing feedback and career development, with specific guidance for mid-year and year-
2016 performance and career end performance discussions. 100% of eligible employees received a performance review.
development reviews
Material Topic: Inclusion & Diversity
Management Core 103-1, Explanation of the Inclusion & Diversity, page 24
Approach 103-2, material topic and its
2016 103-3 Boundary
Diversity Core 405-1 Diversity of governance TC-SI 330a.3 Dignity and Inclusion & Diversity, page 24; Snapshot of Directors, page 45
and Equal bodies and employees equality
Opportunity
Comprehensive 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and Dignity and Pay Equity, page 25; 2022 Proxy Statement, page 10
2016
remuneration of women equality
At Visa, men and women earn the same pay for the same work globally. For our last
to men
completed fiscal year ended September 30, 2021, the ratio of the median of the annual
total compensation of our employees, excluding our Chief Executive Officer (CEO), to the
annual total compensation of our CEO is 211:1.
Material Topic: Employee Learning & Development
Management Core 103-1, Explanation of the Employee Learning & Development, page 28
Approach 103-2, material topic and its
2016 103-3 Boundary
Training and Core 404-1 Average hours of training Skills for In 2021 on average, Visa employees participated in 12 hours of training.
Education per year per employee the future
2016
Comprehensive 404-2 Programs for upgrading Employee Learning & Development, page 28
employee skills and
transition assistance
programs
2021 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 58
ESG Framework Map
Topic-Specific Disclosures
GRI Standard GRI Core or GRI GRI Metric SASB Code WEF Metric Location or Direct Response
Comprehensive Code
Material Topic: Employee Benefits
Management Core 103-1, Explanation of the Employee Benefits, page 32
Approach 103-2, material topic and its
2016 103-3 Boundary
Employment Core 401-2 Benefits provided to Employee Benefits, page 32
2017 full-time employees
that are not provided to
temporary or part-time
employees
Material Topic: Digital Equity and Inclusion
Management Core 103-1, Explanation of the Digital Equity & Inclusion, page 12
Approach 103-2, material topic and its
2016 103-3 Boundary
Indirect Core 203-2 Significant indirect Digital Equity & Inclusion, page 12; Sustainable Commerce, page 41
Economic economic impacts
Impacts
Material Topic: Community Support
Management Core 103-1, Explanation of the Community Support, page 13
Approach 103-2, material topic and its
2016 103-3 Boundary
Local Core 413-1 Operations with local Empowering People, Communities & Economies, page 9; Investing in Our People, page 23
Communities community engagement,
2017 impact assessments, and
development programs
2021 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 59
ESG Framework Map
Topic-Specific Disclosures
GRI Standard GRI Core or GRI GRI Metric SASB Code WEF Metric Location or Direct Response
Comprehensive Code
Material Topic: Payments Security
Management Core 103-1, Explanation of the Payments Security, page 17
Approach 103-2, material topic and its
2016 103-3 Boundary
Core Self-Selected Metric FN-CF-230a.3 Payments Security, page 17
Material Topic: Cybersecurity
Management Core 103-1, Explanation of the
Approach 103-2, material topic and its Cybersecurity, page 19
2016 103-3 Boundary
Core Self-Selected Metric TC-SI-230a.2 Cybersecurity, page 19
Material Topic: Responsible Data Use
Management Core 103-1, Explanation of the Responsible Data Use, page 21
Approach 103-2, material topic and its
2016 103-3 Boundary
2021 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 60
ESG Framework Map
Topic-Specific Disclosures
GRI Standard GRI Core or GRI GRI Metric SASB Code WEF Metric Location or Direct Response
Comprehensive Code
Material Topic: Responsible Data Use
Customer Core 418-1 Substantiated Per SEC rules, any material breach of Visa’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics would
Privacy 2016 complaints concerning be disclosed. Visa does not disclose non-material breaches of our Code of Business
breaches of customer Conduct and Ethics.
privacy and losses of
customer data
TC-SI-220a.1 Responsible Data Use, page 21
Material Topic: Sustainable Operations
Management Core 103-1, Explanation of the Protecting the Planet, page 34
Approach 103-2, material topic and its
2016 103-3 Boundary
Energy 2016 Core 302-1 Energy consumption TC-SI-130a.1 Protecting the Planet, page 34; Visa's CDP Response
within the organization
Comprehensive 302-2 Energy consumption TC-SI-130a.1 Energy & Greenhouse Gas Emissions, page 39
outside of the
organization
Comprehensive 302-4 Reduction of energy Our Results, page 38
consumption
Water and Comprehensive 303-3 Water withdrawal TC-SI-130a.2 Freshwater Water withdrawal data is collected directly from facilities that Visa operates (owned or
Effluents 2018 availability leased) as part of the annual environmental inventory process. Visa then determines areas
of high or extremely high water stress using WRI’s Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas. Forty-four
percent of Visa's water use occurs in an area of high or extremely high baseline water
stress. This metric does not include the recycled water that is used at Visa’s data center in
the Eastern U.S.
Comprehensive 303-5 Water consumption TC-SI-130a.2 Freshwater Water, page 40
availability
2021 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 61
ESG Framework Map
Topic-Specific Disclosures
GRI Standard GRI Core or GRI GRI Metric SASB Code WEF Metric Location or Direct Response
Comprehensive Code
Material Topic: Sustainable Operations
Emissions Comprehensive 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG Climate Energy & Greenhouse Gas Emissions, page 39; Visa discloses to the CDP survey annually.
2016 emissions change See Visa's CDP Response for further energy and emissions information.
Comprehensive 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) Climate
GHG emissions change
Comprehensive 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) Climate
GHG emissions change
Comprehensive 305-4 GHG emissions intensity
Comprehensive 305-5 Reduction of GHG Climate
emissions change
Effluents and Comprehensive 306-2 Waste by type and Water, page 40
Waste 2017 disposal method
TC-SI-130a.3 Protecting the Planet, page 34
Material Topic: Sustainable Commerce
Management Core 103-1, Explanation of the Sustainable Commerce, page 41
Approach 103-2, material topic and its
2016 103-3 Boundary
Indirect Core 203-2 Significant indirect Inclusive Economies, page 8; Sustainable Commerce, page 41
Economic economic impacts
Impacts
Material Topic: Corporate Governance
Management Core 103-1, Explanation of the Corporate Governance, page 45
Approach 103-2, material topic and its
2016 103-3 Boundary
Diversity Core 405-1 Diversity of governance Inclusion & Diversity, page 24; Snapshot of Directors, page 45
and Equal bodies and employees
Opportunity
2016
2021 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 62
ESG Framework Map
Topic-Specific Disclosures
GRI Standard GRI Core or GRI GRI Metric SASB Code WEF Metric Location or Direct Response
Comprehensive Code
Material Topic: Ethics & Compliance
Management Core 103-1, Explanation of the Ethics & Compliance, page 46
Approach 103-2, material topic and its
2016 103-3 Boundary
Anti- Comprehensive 205-1 Operations assessed Ethics & Compliance, page 46
Corruption for risks related to
2016 corruption
Comprehensive 205-2 Communication and Ethical Ethics & Compliance, page 46
training about anti- behavior
corruption policies and
procedures
Material Topic: Ethics & Compliance
Anti- Core 206-1 Legal actions for anti- TC-SI-520a.1 2021 Annual Report: Legal and Regulatory Matters, pages 47-48, and Note 20-Legal
Competitive competitive behavior, Matters, pages 103-110
Behavior 2016 anti-trust, and monopoly
practices
Material Topic: Engaging with Governments
Management Core 103-1, Explanation of the Engaging with Governments, page 47
Approach 103-2, material topic and its
2016 103-3 Boundary
Tax 2020 Core 207-1 Approach to tax Community Tax Compliance & Governance, page 48; 2021 Annual Report, page 36 and pages 56-57
and social
vitality
2021 Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 63
ESG Framework Map
Topic-Specific Disclosures
GRI Standard GRI Core or GRI GRI Metric SASB Code WEF Metric Location or Direct Response
Comprehensive Code
Material Topic: Responsible Sourcing
Management Core 103-1, Explanation of the Responsible Sourcing, page 48
Approach 103-2, material topic and its
2016 103-3 Boundary
Supplier Core 308-1 New suppliers that Visa does not disclose the number of new suppliers screened using environmental
Environmental were screened using criteria.
Assessment environmental criteria
2016
Material Topic: Human Rights
Management Core 103-1, Explanation of the Human Rights, page 49
Approach 103-2, material topic and its
2016 103-3 Boundary
Human Rights Core 412-1 Operations that have Human Rights, page 49; Visa Modern Slavery Act Transparency Statement
Assessment been subject to human
2017 rights reviews or impact
assessments
Comprehensive 412-3 Significant investment Human Rights, page 49
agreements and
contracts that include
human rights clauses or
that underwent human
rights screening
Other Disclosures
Economic Comprehensive 201-1 Direct economic Employment Corporate Profile, page 5; 2021 Annual Report, pages 2, 34
Performance value generated and and wealth
2016 distributed generation
Employment 2021 Annual Report: Liquidity and Capital Resources, pages 42-45, and Fiscal Year 2021
and wealth Key Statistics, page 5
generation
Innovation Visa does not report total costs related to research and development.
of better
products and
services Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 64
visa.com/esg
©2022 Visa. All rights reserved.
