THE WAY FORWARD
2021 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT
HOME
Table of Contents
03 CEO LETTER 21 HEALTH AND SAFETY 39 NEIGHBORS AND COMMUNITY
22 Safety Culture and Programs 40 Being a Good Citizen
04 ABOUT VULCAN
23 Fatality Prevention Program 41 Indigenous and Tribal Relations
04 One Vulcan. Locally Led.
25 Occupational Health and Industrial Hygiene 42 Community Relations and Disaster Aid
04 The Vulcan Way
43 Vulcan Materials Company Foundation
05 Our Four Strategic Disciplines
26 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP
07 2021 Financial Performance
44 GOVERNANCE
27 Our Commitment
09 Our Products and Product Sustainability
28 Energy and GHG Emissions 45 Board Oversight
11 ESG Overview
31 Climate Change 46 Internal Oversight
12 Vulcan ESG Goals
32 Air Quality 46 Association Memberships
13 2021 Highlights
33 Land Use and Biodiversity
47 THE WAY FORWARD
36 Waste Reduction and Recycling
14 OUR PEOPLE
37 Water
48 PERFORMANCE DATA TABLE
15 Our Biggest Competitive Advantage
38 Supply Chain Management and
DATA
16 Team Member Benefits 53 FRAMEWORK INDEXES
Sustainable Procurement
INDEX
17 DE&I
20 COVID-19 Safety Protocols
Vulcan Materials Company 2021 ESG Report 2
CEO Letter
HOME
Our culture is our lifeblood. For more than 65 years as a Although our aggregates-focused business consistently has
publicly traded company, The Vulcan Way has been to do the the lowest greenhouse gas emissions footprint among our
right thing, the right way, at the right time. construction materials peers, we are committed to doing
our part to reverse global greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions
We have a long history of serving our customers and
trends and reduce potential impacts of climate change
delivering results to our shareholders while embodying
worldwide. In this report, you will find interim targets for
our commitments to people; to the safety and health of our
reducing Scopes 1 and 2 GHG emissions as well as our
Vulcan family members; to environmental stewardship; and
commitments to reporting Scope 3 emissions and developing
to the communities where we live, work and play. These
goals in line with science-based targets.
commitments have always been part of The Vulcan Way.
Our commitment to a more ESG-focused approach extends
In 2021, we shifted our approach to reporting on these
to our Board of Directors, which adopted a resolution in
commitments from a Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)
2021 vesting direct oversight of ESG with its Governance
focus to an Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) “Our role as a leader in
Committee. Although this report does not incorporate
model aligned with the best practices of internationally
data from U.S. Concrete, which Vulcan acquired in August
this industry, and our
recognized ESG reporting frameworks, including the
2021, we are fully integrating U.S. Concrete’s operations
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) and the
ability to continue as a
into our ESG program so that our entire enterprise is able
Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD).
to continuously improve our efforts to maintain a more
sustainable company
Vulcan’s 2021 ESG Report outlines our overall program, goals environmentally and socially sustainable organization.
are due to the spirit
and policies and demonstrates the great work of our people
While 2021 has been a landmark year for our company, there
and partners who are committed to doing the right thing —
is more work to be done. As we look toward the future, it is and drive of our Vulcan
for our company and for one another. At a time when there
evident that our people will drive our ESG efforts. Together,
is a renewed global focus on the roles and responsibilities of family.”
we will continue to focus on doing the right thing, the right
public companies, especially when it comes to safety, health
DATA way, at the right time — proving that The Way Forward is The
and environmental stewardship, I am proud to say that Vulcan
INDEX
Vulcan Way. Tom Hill
continues to be committed to doing our part.
Chairman & CEO,
Sincerely,
In 2021 alone, our people developed a program dedicated to Vulcan Materials Company
identifying, assessing and mitigating the highest safety risks
at our facilities. Through this initiative, our team members can
assess activities with the highest potential for serious injury
or fatality and implement focused safety trainings, education
and knowledge sharing across the company, creating and
Tom Hill
maintaining a safer workplace.
Chairman & CEO, Vulcan Materials Company
VVuullccaann MMaatteerriiaallss CCoommppaannyy 22002211 EESSGG RReeppoorrtt 33
HOME
About Vulcan
ONE VULCAN. LOCALLY LED.
As the nation’s largest supplier of construction aggregates — and a major producer of aggregates-based
construction materials — Vulcan provides construction materials that are essential to vital infrastructure across the
country.
Our nearly 12,000 team members produce and distribute crushed stone, sand and gravel; asphalt mix; and ready-
mixed concrete at 720 facilities in 22 states and four countries. Those products contribute to the quality of life of
millions of people and are, quite literally, the foundation of our communities, found in highways and other public
infrastructure projects as well as private residential and nonresidential construction projects. With more than 15.6
billion tons of aggregates in reserves, Vulcan can provide the highest-quality products to our customers from coast-
to-coast for decades to come.
We take a “One Vulcan. Locally Led.” approach, ensuring we deliver industry-leading, quality products and services
that consistently meet or exceed customer expectations. This approach means our team members work together
to leverage the size and strengths of Vulcan as a whole while running their operations with a strong entrepreneurial
spirit and sense of ownership. This includes aligning with our mission of being responsible stewards of the safety
of our people and the environmental impact of our operations and products — all while earning and maintaining
superior returns for our shareholders.
THE VULCAN WAY
DATA Our culture is our lifeblood. As a people-first company, we understand our long-term success is directly attributed to
INDEX the many talented, hard-working individuals who are committed to doing the right thing, the right way, at the right
time. This is The Vulcan Way.
Our team members embrace and abide by our culture of respect — a respect for one another and for the safety and
health of our people, contractors and communities as well as a respect for our environment and the society we live
in. Our guiding principles of integrity, excellence and people are at the heart of how we run our business.
VVVuuulllcccaaannn MMMaaattteeerrriiiaaalllsss CCCooommmpppaaannnyyy 222000222111 EEESSSGGG RRReeepppooorrrttt 444
HOME
Our Four Strategic Disciplines
One of the keys to our success has been our ongoing focus on controlling what we can control through our four Strategic Disciplines. By doing so, we have been able to
successfully navigate through the challenges of recent years and position ourselves for continued success for years to come.
OPERATIONAL COMMERCIAL LOGISTICS STRATEGIC
EXCELLENCE EXCELLENCE INNOVATION SOURCING
We strive to be the We place great Our industry-leading We focus on value
best operator in the emphasis on the unique logistics team manages the preservation and creation
business, living up to characteristics of each shipments of nearly half in our sourcing, leveraging
the expectations of our geographic market, of our products. We use our scale to save money
customers and our own and we interact with our logistics systems that give across the organization
people. customers accordingly. We us real-time information while making sure our
leverage our coast-to-coast needed to make faster and people have the supplies
presence, sharing best better decisions. and equipment they need.
practices and real-time,
forward-looking metrics
DATA
INDEX with our sales teams so they
can focus on meeting the
needs of our customers.
Vulcan Materials Company 2021 ESG Report 5
HOME
Vulcan by the Numbers
22
Founded in 404 aggregates
states
facilities
1957
173 concrete
Headquartered in facilities
BIRMINGHAM,
Alabama
69 asphalt
facilities
65 YEARS
2 marine
as a publicly traded
terminals
USA
company
DATA
British Columbia, Canada and
INDEX
the Quintana Roo, Mexico
BAHAMAS
4
12,000
countries
CANADA
1 innovation
employees laboratory
MEXICO
This information is inclusive of U.S. Concrete facilities and employees. The full ESG data presented in this report and available in the data index include only legacy Vulcan facilities. Full
U.S. Concrete ESG data will be included in the Vulcan 2022 ESG Report to allow for a full reporting cycle of data collection.
Vulcan Materials Company 2021 ESG Report 6
HOME
2021 Financial
Performance
Despite facing various challenges, including
inflationary pressures, labor constraints and the
ongoing economic recovery from the pandemic,
Vulcan continued to perform as an industry leader
in 2021 — finishing the year strong and seeing
expansion, once again, in our industry-leading unit
profitability. See our 2021 10-K Annual Report for
full financial data.
DATA
INDEX
VVuullccaann MMaatteerriiaallss CCoommppaannyy 22002211 EESSGG RReeppoorrtt 77
HOME
VULCAN PRODUCTS
AGGREGATES
Aggregates are made up of primarily crushed stone, sand and gravel produced by drilling and blasting
stone within our quarries and used in the foundational building of cities, towns and transportation networks.
• Used as base materials for highways, walkways, airport runways, parking lots and railroads
• Used for erosion control, water filtration and purification
• Used in construction projects for housing, schools and hospitals, commercial building and retail space
and water infrastructure systems
HOT MIX ASPHALT
Asphalt is made up of aggregates, asphalt binder, additives and modifiers and serves as the paving surface
for 94% of the paved roads and highways in the U.S.
• Used as materials for parking lots, driveways, walking trails and bike paths
• Mixed to a custom set of standards based on customer need and specifications, often based on
weather and expected traffic conditions
DATA READY-MIXED CONCRETE
INDEX
Ready-mixed concrete is made up of fine aggregates, coarse aggregates, cementitious binders and water
to create a durable, strong, water-tight and abrasion-resistant product, making it desirable material for
construction projects.
• Used to construct highways, bridges and dams
• Used in projects for building construction, airports, sewer systems, tunnels, home foundations,
driveways and sidewalks
VVuullccaann MMaatteerriiaallss CCoommppaannyy 22002211 EESSGG RReeppoorrtt 88
HOME
Our Products and Product Sustainability
Part of our role as responsible stewards of our Vulcan has partnered with CarbonCure, a sustainable Through the work developed in the U.S. Concrete Lab,
environment and communities includes improving concrete solution company. CarbonCure injects new concrete mixes that utilize recycled and innovative
the sustainability of our products through innovative captured CO into fresh concrete during the mixing materials — without compromising specification,
2
efforts. As part of our product development process, we process, trapping CO permanently in the concrete quality and reliability — are being developed. Because
2
work closely with both our customers and sustainability as a mineral. This process prevents CO from being concrete chemistry is highly complex, with even the
2
partners to identify needs and help support the emitted into the atmosphere as a GHG, safely reducing slightest change in materials affecting strength, cure
reduction of overall environmental impact — while also the overall cement content within the product. This time and durability, we are pleased to have the talent,
providing cost-effective solutions. innovative and cost-effective process generates carbon- expertise and passion U.S. Concrete brings to Vulcan.
removal credits, allowing us to continue partnering with Together, we are paving the path forward through
We have also focused on creating technologies that
sustainability-focused companies. innovative research and the development of meaningful
reduce the overall embodied carbon in construction
technologies that meet the ever-evolving needs of our
and on sustainable and low-carbon downstream asphalt Because of partnerships with companies like
customers.
mix and ready-mixed concrete products that have CarbonCure, Vulcan can support projects such as
positive environmental impacts and directly contribute Amazon’s HQ2 in Arlington, Virginia, that specify CO
2 “Right now, there is a significant
to a low-carbon future. mineralization as part of their low-embodied carbon
concrete specifications. We are proud to say that the amount of research underway
One example of this effort can be seen in our use and
work we do with sustainability partners is a key factor
production of slag cement versus the most commonly on technologies that will further
in our ongoing contributions to projects that are highly
used Portland cement. Producing Portland cement
beneficial to our communities and our environment.
reduce carbon emissions from
is an emissions-intensive process. To reduce our
environmental impact, we have used slag, a waste One of the most exciting ways Vulcan is expanding our
concrete, increase carbon sink
product from steel production, at several of our facilities sustainable products line is through the acquisition of
DATA
capabilities of concrete and offer
for decades. Using slag creates a more durable cement U.S. Concrete, a leader in sustainable construction. In
INDEX
than traditional methods. It requires less energy to August 2021, Vulcan welcomed U.S. Concrete to the
operational efficiencies.”
produce, emitting significantly less GHG emissions Vulcan family, enhancing the scale of our aggregates
during production and decreasing the number of new business and strengthening our portfolio of sustainable
materials used. products through our shared commitment to innovation
Alana Guzzetta
and operational excellence.
In addition to this practice, Vulcan chooses partners
National Research Laboratory Manager,
that are also environmentally conscious. Since 2016, U.S. Concrete Lab
Vulcan Materials Company 2021 ESG Report 9
HOME
HOW VULCAN IS REDUCING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT
• Recycling previously used concrete and asphalt paving materials
DID YOU KNOW?
where economical and allowed by specifications, reducing the
amount of new material needed for construction, saving valuable
storage capacity in landfills and eliminating the emissions related
Environmental Product
to transporting waste to landfill sites
Declarations (EPDs) detail the
• Eliminating waste streams from operations by creating blended environmental impact data
sand and dirt products for construction site stabilizations in for each product at specific
markets where we make more manufactured sand than we sell product locations. Vulcan has
and repurposing debris and uninventoried materials from our EPDs for several of our different
facilities, where possible aggregates products and
asphalt and concrete mixes to
• Using alternative materials, like fly ash, to improve products
help us act on opportunities to
Through our ongoing innovation and research, we seek ways to
create more sustainable and
consistently bring superior value, service and products to our
cost-effective products.
customers and partners.
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REDUCTIONS THROUGH CARBONCURE
DATA
INDEX
1.2M yd3 466,339 lbs 130,488 truckloads 11,518 acres
Of concrete made Of CO injected Delivered with CarbonCure of CO absorbing forest
2 2
with CarbonCure concrete land for a year
VVuullccaann MMaatteerriiaallss CCoommppaannyy 22002211 EESSGG RReeppoorrtt 1100
HOME
ESG Overview
In 2021, as part of our shift from a CSR reporting approach to an ESG model, we conducted a formal materiality and risk analysis to identify which ESG risks and
opportunities are most impactful to Vulcan. The analysis combined input from our leadership team and in-depth analyses and perspectives from internal experts,
stakeholders and ESG framework expectations to identify material ESG priorities. In the future, periodic updates to the materiality assessment will be conducted to
capture changes in business strategy, technological innovation and stakeholder priorities. The following material topics will be the focus of our ESG efforts moving
forward and will influence and inform ESG goals for our future.
ESG TOPICS
ENVIRONMENTAL NEIGHBORS &
PEOPLE HEALTH & SAFETY GOVERNANCE
STEWARDSHIP COMMUNITY
Employee Engagement Health and Safety GHG Emissions & Climate Neighbors & Supply Chain &
& Diversity, Equity and The safety and health of Change Communities Procurement
Inclusion (DE&I) our people come first. This includes risks and This includes topics This encompasses issues
This includes challenges This includes Mine Safety opportunities related to related to social license related to fuel supply
and opportunities for and Health Administration climate regulations, fuel to operate, including disruptions, shortage of
workforce succession, (MSHA) and Occupational conservation, renewable neighbor relationships, truck drivers, demand/
retirement, training and Safety and Health credits, target setting and community commitments supply balance, materials
employee diversity. Administration (OSHA) carbon-capture solutions. and charitable giving and transportation, supplier
performance, safety volunteerism. diversity and engagement
DATA culture and programs, Land Use & Biodiversity and management. It
INDEX fatality prevention and This includes risks and also includes risks and
occupational health and opportunities related opportunities regarding
industrial efforts. to environmental customer specifications
conservation, project and ESG requirements on
tracking, post-use products and services.
planning and integration
of biodiversity protection
into land management.
Vulcan Materials Company 2021 ESG Report 11
HOME
Vulcan ESG Goals
OUR GHG-REDUCTION STRATEGIES
SCOPE 1
After completing a materiality assessment, we embarked on developing measurable, enterprise-wide ESG goals, based
Strategies identified to reduce energy
on key areas identified by and included in ESG rating platforms and disclosure frameworks in alignment with the SASB
intensity per ton of product include:
and the TCFD.
• Mobile equipment upgrades
Establishing measurable goals and meaningful indicators for each of the ESG topics that most directly impact our
• Improvements to aggregates
business success and sustainability will enable us to better identify ways to continue improving our strategic approach as
production throughput
responsible stewards of our shared environment and communities. In this report, we share publicly for the first time our
• Water pumping efficiency
goals related to safety, employee engagement and climate change. As our ESG program matures, including having data
improvement
to calculate baselines from which to measure, we will add to these topics.
• Asphalt production heating efficiency
• Increase employee diversity at the director level and above by 20% by 2030. • Electrical efficiency
• Complete anti-bias and diversity training for all employees by 2022.
• Fully implement Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) by 2022 and expand to include additional
EMPLOYEE SCOPE 2
relevant minorities by 2025.
ENGAGEMENT
• Introduce Employee Engagement Surveys in 2022 and repeat on an annual cadence. Strategies identified to reduce emissions
AND DE&I
• Develop leadership and employee programs to address gaps identified in employee surveys
require changes not only to our operations
and provide training across the entire employee life cycle by 2023.
but to the power generated by utilities
• Reduce employee turnover by 25% by 2030 and increase employee retention .
that supply our grid electricity. We actively
engage with utilities to source renewable
• Achieve and maintain zero fatalities at all sites by 2023.
HEALTH & SAFETY
energy through the support of projects
• Reduce MSHA reportable/OSHA recordable injuries by 25% by 2025.
substantiated by Renewable Energy
GHG EMISSIONS • Reduce Scopes 1 and 2 GHG emissions intensity per ton of product produced by 10% by 2030. Certificates (RECs). Notable projects
DATA • Reduce energy intensity per ton of product produced by 6.7% by 2030.
AND CLIMATE include:
INDEX • Secure 5% of all energy from renewable sources by 2030.
CHANGE
• A contract with Florida Power and
Light to use power from a new zero-
Going forward, Vulcan will complete a Scope 3 analysis and establish our Scope 3 baseline by the end of 2022. In
carbon solar facility
addition, we expect to refine our Scopes 1 and 2 methodologies and data sources — particularly in response to the
• A power purchase agreement in Texas
Securities and Exchange Commission’s (SEC's) proposed climate change disclosure rules issued on March 21, 2022.
sourcing wind energy
Provided that we have clarity on public disclosure requirements, Vulcan intends to develop SBTi aligned with holding
• A commitment to large-scale solar
warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius and submit those targets to SBTi within 24 months of filing our commitment with SBTi,
projects in California
consistent with that organization’s processes.
VVuullccaann MMaatteerriiaallss CCoommppaannyy 22002211 EESSGG RReeppoorrtt 1122
HOME
2021 Highlights
ENVIRONMENTAL NEIGHBORS &
PEOPLE HEALTH & SAFETY GOVERNANCE
STEWARDSHIP COMMUNITY
95% 131,477 6,300 $7,067,371 36%
of Vulcan employees, hours of health and safety acres in our total land donated through members of Board of
participation in 401(k) training delivered to Vulcan portfolio managed for Foundation, non-Foundation Directors classified as
retirement benefits employees projects recognized by the and matching gifts and "diverse"
Wildlife Habitat Council support to community
Launched 94% (WHC) organizations 4
98% 837
Employee Resource
Vulcan facilities with zero ESG working groups
Groups (ERGs) and
lost-time injuries launched under the ESG
Inclusion Leadership
of waste diverted from total of Foundation and Steering Committee
Unconscious Bias training
100 landfills Matching Gifts Program
DATA recipients 60%
9.65
INDEX 42%
$910,879
safety audits conducted
of our shareholders are
years as the average
of electricity use in Florida reached by our governance
employee tenure
sourced from solar using in scholarships donated teams to build and foster
renewable energy relationships
credits (RECs)
Vulcan Materials Company 2021 ESG Report 13
HOME
Our People
OUR BIGGEST COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE
DATA
INDEX TEAM MEMBER BENEFITS
DE&I
COVID-19 SAFETY PROTOCOLS
Vulcan Materials Company 2021 ESG Report 14
HOME
Our Biggest Competitive Advantage
It is no secret that at the heart of our success is our Vulcan’s commitment to our people is built on a
biggest competitive advantage: our people. The spirit foundation that includes:
and dedication of Vulcan team members, along with their
• Expanding the diversity of our workforce at all levels
commitment to living and demonstrating the core values
and actively sharing, respecting, embracing and
of The Vulcan Way, is why we are the leading supplier of
celebrating our differences
aggregates in the U.S. “People at Vulcan are
• Finding the best person for the job and offering
Our belief in doing the right thing, the right way, at the treasured, are valued —
highly competitive compensation
right time, is embodied in the way we uphold the highest
are encouraged to engage
safety and health standards, in the level of mutual respect
• Investing in our employees through an award-
and dignity with which our team members treat one
and ask questions to solve
winning 401(k) plan, financial planning tools and
another and in our engagement with and contributions to
support and benefits programs
problems. It’s lived out
our communities and environments.
• Supporting professional growth through leadership across the entirety of the
As a company, Vulcan is committed to supporting the
development, mentoring programs and continuing
12,000 members of the Vulcan family by actively growing
organization. This focus on
education opportunities
and sustaining a culture of integrity, teamwork and mutual
respect. our people drives everything
• Empowering and supporting team members'
We have cultivated The Vulcan Way by developing and boots-on-the-ground engagement with their we do as a company.”
retaining the very best people. Focusing on providing various community and philanthropic organizations
long-term, family-wage careers with exceptional benefits
For full details on our employee demographics and data,
DATA
and opportunities in a diverse and engaging workplace is Darren Hicks
INDEX please see our data table.
the bedrock of our continued success. When our people
Senior Vice President, Chief Human Resources
feel safe, healthy, happy and valued, the results are a Officer, Vulcan Materials Company
productive and empowering work environment that drives
positive impact and superior returns.
VVuullccaann MMaatteerriiaallss CCoommppaannyy 22002211 EESSGG RReeppoorrtt 1155
HOME
Team Member Benefits
We believe in investing in the continuous growth, a culture of transparency and dialogue throughout the bargain collectively as determined by team members,
fulfillment and professional development of our company. without coercion, interference, retaliation or harassment,
people. This includes robust benefits programs; in compliance with all applicable laws. In situations
ETHICS & COMPLIANCE
access to supervisory, management and leadership where team members are represented by a legally
development opportunities; plus mentorship programs Vulcan is dedicated to the fair and equitable treatment represented union, Vulcan bargains in good faith and is
and continuing education opportunities to further their of all people, respecting their dignity and fundamental committed to maintaining a constructive dialogue with
professional interests. rights regardless of race, ethnicity, color, gender, sexual all union representatives.
orientation, religion, national origin, age or beliefs. Our
Benefits and development opportunities include: Our commitment to the highest ethical standards and
ethics and compliance practices are an essential part
compliance are vital to our continued success as a
• Vulcan’s tuition reimbursement program that of our commitment to providing a safe workplace. We
company. It is part of The Vulcan Way.
pays up to 100% of tuition costs based on value and ensure the fundamental rights of our people.
academic performance
Our key ethics and compliance policies and programs
• Our mentorship program
include:
DID YOU KNOW?
• Our Leadership Development Program,
• Business Conduct Policy
conducted in partnership with the Kenan-Flagler
• CEO and Senior Financial Officer Code of Ethics
School of Business, University of North Carolina,
• Fair Employment Policy Vulcan has always been dedicated to
Chapel Hill, for future senior-level leaders
protecting the rights of its people and
• Privacy Policy
• Community engagement opportunities
ensuring our employees and the workforce
• Sexual Harassment Policy
that include service to charitable, civic and
of our suppliers are treated with respect
• Unlawful Harassment and Anti-Retaliation Policy
educational organizations
and dignity. In 2021, we memorialized
DATA
this commitment through publishing our
INDEX • Training and continuing education programs
It is important to us that all team members feel safe
Human Rights Policy. We hold our suppliers
in a “see something, say something” culture, where
We also believe in consistent and open communication. to this standard and prohibit their use of
everyone is encouraged to report ethics complaints,
Team members and leaders meet to discuss child or forced labor as well as require that
concerns and personnel issues either to their direct
development and growth during performance reviews they provide equal opportunities and a
supervisors or to our confidential Business Conduct
held on a regular basis. All performance reviews include discrimination-free work environment and
Helpline.
SMART (Specific, Measurable, Achievable, Relevant and protect the safety and security of their people
Time-Bound) goals created with both the team member We respect our team members’ right to join or not join at all times.
and their leadership. The internal objective is fostering labor organizations. We also respect the freedom to
Vulcan Materials Company 2021 ESG Report 16
HOME
DE&I
We understand that building a diverse workforce means created for team members who identify as, or want
focusing on diversity of backgrounds, lived experiences to be an ally of, Black, Latinx or Hispanic, women and
and diversity of thought. We believe true innovation veteran employees. These inclusive and team member-
and advancements in technology, processes and led groups were created to encourage engagement,
productivity come when all voices and perspectives are provide opportunities for mentorship and celebrate
heard. our differences. We are passionate about fostering a “I’m proud of how intentional
diverse, equitable and inclusive workplace — today and
We embrace and value the unique racial, ethnic, Vulcan has been in setting
for our future.
religious and cultural diversity of our Vulcan family.
and working toward
We are committed to creating a more equitable and
inclusive work environment through continuous
our company-wide and
improvement and a dedication to seek awareness and VULCAN’S DE&I COUNCIL
divisional DE&I goals. We
understanding.
• Comprised of 12 representatives, including
want everyone here to feel
Vulcan conducts mandatory diversity and inclusion the General Counsel, members of the
awareness training across the company as part of our Vulcan corporate office and appointed
comfortable at work, see
onboarding process for every new hire. Our DE&I DE&I leaders from every division
Council also launched a new Inclusion Leadership themselves represented at
• Established in 2015
Unconscious Bias training in 2021. This training was
the company and feel like
• Meets monthly to discuss DE&I efforts
developed to engage and encourage our team
members in being consciously and deliberatively • Aligns with ongoing DE&I programs and this is a safe, productive,
inclusive at work. broader business imperatives
DATA
collaborative place to be.”
INDEX
In addition to our DE&I Council initiatives, Vulcan • Has DE&I leaders chair their own division-
launched four ERGs. These are networks for team specific council that focuses on DE&I goals
members from diverse backgrounds to celebrate, learn
Crystal Maxena
from and share their experiences. Our initial ERGs were
Accounting Services Supervisor
and DE&I Leader, Vulcan
Materials Company
VVuullccaann MMaatteerriiaallss CCoommppaannyy 22002211 EESSGG RReeppoorrtt 1177
HOME
DID YOU KNOW?
In 2019, Vulcan CEO Tom Hill signed the
CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion™
CEO Pledge to Act on Supporting More
Inclusive Workplaces. By signing this
pledge, he committed to:
• Continuing to make Vulcan a
trusted place to have complex
— and sometimes difficult —
conversations about diversity and
inclusion
• Implementing and expanding
unconscious bias education
DATA
• Sharing both best and unsuccessful
INDEX
practices with other leaders
• Creating and sharing strategic
inclusion and diversity plans with
the Vulcan Board of Directors
VVuullccaann MMaatteerriiaallss CCoommppaannyy 22002211 EESSGG RReeppoorrtt 1188
HOME
VULCAN’S HBCUS INITIATIVE: THE THINK BIG PITCH IDEA CONTEST
In 2018, we launched the Vulcan Historically Black Colleges & Universities (HBCUs) Initiative in partnership with six strategically selected institutions: North Carolina Agricultural
& Technical State University, Benedict College, Tennessee State University, Alabama Agricultural & Mechanical University, Alabama State University and Texas Southern University.
We established this program to deepen our relationships with universities in our region and develop a strong talent pipeline of engaged, dynamic thinkers with a diversity of
lived experiences. Through this initiative, we partner with each participating school to host an annual pitch competition.
Each fall, hundreds of students from all six schools submit pitches on a campus infrastructure- or service-related idea that could enhance their school or school experience. Of
these submissions, six to eight students are selected to present their ideas to the Vulcan HBCU Committee for their respective division. Pitch winners receive scholarships, and
first-place winners receive an automatic internship offer from Vulcan.
“Earlier this year, I was awarded the “What a way to end my last
first place scholarship for the Think year at Alabama A&M! I
Big Pitch idea contest at my university, participated in my first
Tennessee State University … I have business pitch competition
had the privilege of working with Vulcan hosted by The Yard and Vulcan
Materials Mideast Division as a sales/ Materials Company, and I WON!
marketing intern for the past eight weeks This event was different from
and enjoyed every minute of it. Vulcan anything I had ever been a
Materials gave me my first look into the part [of], and I am incredibly
DATA RaeVin Johnson
Widmark Cadet Jr.,
INDEX corporate world, and I am now more thankful for the exposure,
Alabama A&M Vulcan
Tennessee State University, Vulcan
Materials Company 2021 Pitch excited than ever to pursue my dream as Materials Company 2021 Pitch feedback and advice I gained
Competition Winner Competition Winner
a successful marketing manager.” from it.”
Vulcan Materials Company 2021 ESG Report 19
HOME
COVID-19 Safety Protocols
With the global COVID-19 crisis continuing to impact
communities — and the rise of the Delta and Omicron
variants in 2021 — we remained ever vigilant regarding
the safety and health of our people.
Throughout 2021, we continued to supply personal
“Navigating the COVID-19
protective equipment (PPE), including masks, hand
crisis has been challenging.
sanitizer and hand-washing stations for our team
members. Our COVID-19 protocols were adapted
But through it all, I have
to meet the needs of our team members and ensure
they were safe and supported in their essential work. seen Vulcan’s leadership and
Educational materials and resources, plus health and
commitment to our values –
safety guidelines were accessible to all employees and
their families through our COVID-19 Resource site.
how we value safety and health
We also developed initiatives like the “This Is Our Shot”
and how we value our people.”
COVID-19 Vaccination Incentive Program. This program
and the associated education campaign, which was
based on guidance from the Centers for Disease
Matt Arbuckle
Control and Prevention (CDC), OSHA and local health
Business Development & Land
officials, launched in August 2021.
Manager, Vulcan Materials
DATA Company
Through “This Is Our Shot,” team members who were
INDEX
fully vaccinated prior to October 1 were eligible to earn
up to $1,000 in cash incentives. In addition, vaccinated
team members continued to have access to our
COVID-19 Paid Leave Program, which grants 80 hours
of paid leave to team members who become ill, need to
quarantine or are caring for someone with COVID-19.
VVuullccaann MMaatteerriiaallss CCoommppaannyy 22002211 EESSGG RReeppoorrtt 2200
HOME
Health and Safety
SAFETY CULTURE AND PROGRAMS
DATA
INDEX FATALITY PREVENTION PROGRAM
OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND INDUSTRIAL HYGIENE
Vulcan Materials Company 2021 ESG Report 21
HOME
Safety Culture and Programs
VULCAN’S SAFETY AND HEALTH
PROGRAMS
Our company-wide programs include:
We believe there is no greater responsibility than SHE teams conduct these assessments at their own
• Training, tools and equipment to do
keeping our team members safe and healthy. It is our location and other facilities to evaluate the effectiveness
every job safely
number one priority. It is also why our safety protocols of our current safety measures. As a result of their
and programs are so embedded in our Vulcan culture. efforts, we can identify and share best practices, plus • Routine inspections of all facilities for
We are committed to engaging every team member — discover potential hazards while building inter-plant potential safety hazards
from plant managers and team members to our CEO collaboration between safety teams.
• Immediate reporting of near misses to
and every level in between — to prioritize safety across
site management
all of our operations, offices and locations. We believe
“Prioritizing safety in our
• Reviews and sharing of near misses
safety is a personal and shared responsibility.
to help team members recognize and
operations is very important to us,
Vulcan’s Safety, Health & Environment Board
learn from incidents
Committee, along with our full Board of Directors, but it’s about more than just safe
• Pairing of tenured team members with
has oversight over our safety and health program
practices: it’s a deep desire to new hires to share safety knowledge
and performance. Our Safety, Health & Environment
and experience on facility operations,
Management Committee, made up of Vulcan senior
take care of our people. We work
equipment and workplace safety
leadership and senior personnel from cross-functional
our hardest to make sure that practices
operations, governs all safety, health and environmental
initiatives on an ongoing basis. • Safety technologies deployed in our
our people go home every day the
mobile equipment and truck fleets
To reinforce our culture of safety, our leadership
same way they show up to work.
We work hard to ensure that all team
routinely hosts joint safety and operational meetings to
discuss performance and safety as well as other ways It’s a core value of our culture.” members and contractors have the
DATA
knowledge, skills and agency to operate in
to support safety across our facilities. Additionally, we
INDEX
a safe, healthy manner. We understand that
have Safety, Health and Environmental (SHE) teams
the best way to achieve our goal of zero
consisting of operations and safety personnel who Jason Teter
accidents and injuries is to position
conduct internal inspections and assessments.
Senior Vice President, Mideast and Southeast
our team members so they can clearly
Divisions, Vulcan Materials Company
assess hazards and risks while also
understanding how to mitigate them.
VVuullccaann MMaatteerriiaallss CCoommppaannyy 22002211 EESSGG RReeppoorrtt 2222
HOME
Fatality Prevention Program
While we are pleased to report that we experienced no focused on these high-risk areas were required for all
fatalities in 2021, achieving a zero-accident, zero-injury team members — and will continue to be. Each risk area
DID YOU KNOW?
and zero-fatality goal at our facilities requires a constant will be covered annually, and as of March 2022, we have
focus on the safety of our team members. This focus covered all 14 High-Risk Areas identified in 2021.
includes developing critical initiatives specifically for the
We also placed more focus on high-potential severity The most important measure of our
purpose of preventing serious injury and loss of life.
near misses in 2021. This was, in part, a result of the operational success each year is our safety
As part of our efforts to develop new initiatives, we total number of recorded near misses increasing by performance.
identified a trend. Both within Vulcan and across the 15.5% from 2020 to 2021. Near misses are a leading
• In 2021, we achieved an MSHA/OSHA
industry at large, fatalities can occur even when typical indicator for identifying incidents that could cause
safety record of 1.01.
safety performance measurements, like injury rate, are serious injury or death.
favorable. This means that even when companies act to • More than 94% of our facilities had no
We conduct root cause analysis on all high-potential
reduce smaller hazards that have the potential to cause lost-time injuries or fatalities.
near misses and incidents. Any trends in the analysis
injury, there is potential for larger hazards with the
are then evaluated quarterly as part of our Fatality This kind of performance is the result of hard
highest potential of severity to be missed.
Prevention Program assessments. Based on the results, work, attention to detail and a team-wide
In 2021, to further support our goals of zero accidents, our safety and health team develops education and focus on day-to-day safety measures.
injuries or fatalities, we developed our Fatality follow-up assessments to help prevent future near
Prevention Program. This initiative sets out a specific misses and incidents from occurring.
structure for identifying, assessing and mitigating the
High-potential near misses and incidents also go to
highest safety risks at our facilities, addressing the trend.
an executive team made up of our division presidents
DATA
To launch this program, we first conducted field and operational management for review. Under their
INDEX
assessments to identify 14 High-Risk Areas across our guidance, certain best practices and controls are
work activities. These areas were defined as having the then implemented across the division or company-
highest potential for serious injury and fatality, such wide to prevent similar future events. These quarterly
as working at heights. We then developed specific assessments and the executive review actions, as well as
materials outlining the high-risk hazards and how to the company injury rate, now make up the Vulcan bonus
mitigate those hazards according to each risk area. compensation safety multiplier to more accurately
Reviews of each identified area were then implemented reflect and reward our management’s absolute focus on
regularly during safety meetings. In addition, trainings preventing accidents, injuries and fatalities.
Vulcan Materials Company 2021 ESG Report 23
HOME
MSHA REPORTABLE INJURY RATE & OSHA TOTAL RECORDABLE INCIDENT RATE (TRIR)
1.2
1.13
1.08
1.1 1.06
0.98
1.0
0.95
0.98
0.9
0.9
0.9 0.89 0.89
VULCAN DIRECTOR NAMED
0.8
2021 JAMES M. CHRISTIE SAFETY
0.7
& HEALTH PROFESSIONAL OF
THE YEAR
0.6
Vulcan is proud to share that the National
0.5
Stone, Sand & Gravel Association (NSSGA)
2017 2018 2019 2020 2021
named our very own Director of Safety and
Health, Chad McDougal, as the 2021 James
MSHA Reportable Injury Rate OSHA Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR)
M. Christie Safety & Health Professional of
the Year.
Started in 1987, this award recognizes
individuals for substantial commitment and
“At Vulcan, we have a safe TOTAL NUMBER OF RECORDED
contributions to safe and healthy practices
NEAR MISSES
production mentality. We don’t
within their companies and the industry.
2,500
2,167 Chad’s work in safety and health at Vulcan
look at safety as just a priority:
includes maintaining our industry-leading
1,877
DATA 2,000
It’s everything. We understand MSHA and OSHA safety record, developing
INDEX
1,471 our COVID-19 safety protocols, leading our
1,391
that if safety isn’t an integral
1,500
internal SHE Council, regularly reporting on
safety performance and spearheading our
part of our operations, then the
1,000 Serious Injury and Fatality Prevention work.
business itself is not successful.”
500
Chad McDougal
0
Director of Safety and Health, Vulcan Materials Company 2018 2019 2020 2021
VVuullccaann MMaatteerriiaallss CCoommppaannyy 22002211 EESSGG RReeppoorrtt 2244
HOME
Occupational Health and Industrial Hygiene
The health of our team members has always been a X-rays and lung capacity testing on all team members
priority for Vulcan. We were the first company in the every five years to monitor for any early signs of silicosis or
U.S. aggregates industry to launch a comprehensive other types of pneumoconiosis. Because of our proactive
occupational health and industrial hygiene program focus on regular monitoring, we have had very few cases
more than 40 years ago. Our program set the industry of silicosis in team members, with the majority of recorded
standard on providing routine medical surveillance and cases coming from acquired sites versus legacy sites.
monitoring of team member exposure to noise, dust and
NOISE
other substances. The role of our Occupational Health
and Industrial Hygiene Program is to identify, assess and Our in-depth industrial hygiene program also includes
control workplace health hazards that can cause sickness, pre-employment and ongoing hearing tests and
health impacts or discomfort for our team members. monitoring to prevent hearing loss in our team members.
We enroll all facility employees in our best-in-class hearing
Our program includes:
conversation program. This goes above and beyond the
• On-site voluntary medical surveillance to assess MSHA and OSHA requirements of enrolling only team
team member exposure to dust and noise members exposed to certain decibel levels. Audiometric
monitoring tests for team members are conducted on an
• Routine on-site industrial hygiene monitoring to
annual basis.
measure team member exposure to dust, noise
and other substances
• Identification of potential high-risk activities and
DID YOU KNOW?
workplace hazards using exposure-monitoring
DATA
backpacks that collect real-time data from on-site
INDEX
team members
The exposure-monitoring backpacks that collect
SILICA
real-time data from on-site team members in
We also take every measure to reduce team member Vulcan’s Occupational Health and Industrial
exposure to hazardous materials, including silica. We Hygiene Program were an initiative developed by
conduct regular, random silica dust sampling at our Vulcan, in partnership with the National Institute
facilities to monitor workplace levels in the air. We also for Occupational Safety & Health (NIOSH).
partner with third-party organizations to conduct chest
VVuullccaann MMaatteerriiaallss CCoommppaannyy 22002211 EESSGG RReeppoorrtt 2255
HOME
Environmental
Stewardship
OUR COMMITMENT
DATA
INDEX ENERGY AND GHG EMISSIONS
CLIMATE CHANGE
AIR QUALITY
LAND USE AND BIODIVERSITY
WASTE REDUCTION AND RECYCLING
WATER
Vulcan Materials Company 2021 ESG Report 26
HOME
Our Commitment
At Vulcan, we believe environmental stewardship All environmental stewardship initiatives, policies
is fundamental to our business. We recognize that and programs are overseen by the Safety, Health
responsible, sustainable operations drive long- and Environmental Affairs Committee of our Board.
term positive impact for our environment and our In addition, our Governance Committee oversees
communities. As an industry leader, we are committed how environmental performance, management and
to doing the right thing, the right way, at the right time. reporting are incorporated into Vulcan’s larger ESG
This means we operate our business with a focus on strategy.
sustainability and a dedication to continuously improve
ways to protect the environment. “Our approach to environmental
Regulation compliance serves as our baseline. We stewardship is rooted in a
strive to exceed federal, state and local environmental
boots-on-the-ground approach
regulations through our Safety, Health and
Environmental Stewardship Policy. This policy — and our
with our operations and our
overall environmental protection strategy — outlines
business partners. We want
ways in which we are working to reduce our carbon
footprint, increase our energy efficiency, monitor
to make sure that we are not
water use, reduce waste and manage our land with
biodiversity in mind. just meeting regulatory and
All team members and contractors are expected to compliance standards, but
adhere to this policy, follow all applicable regulations
DATA
going above and beyond to be
and make decisions that align with our commitment
INDEX
to running more sustainable operations. To ensure
a good steward and neighbor in
compliance, we leverage the use of a digital platform
our communities.”
to deliver a compliance framework for each facility.
This tracking system is used to simplify permit and
regulatory requirements into clear, easy-to-understand
tasks for facility team members. Team members use Kelly Van Kovering
the framework to conduct inspections, collect data and Director of Environmental Compliance,
complete other required tasks in a comprehensive and Vulcan Materials Company
timely manner.
VVuullccaann MMaatteerriiaallss CCoommppaannyy 22002211 EESSGG RReeppoorrtt 2277
HOME
Energy and GHG Emissions
In 2021, our combined Scopes 1 and 2 emissions were
1.15 million metric tons CO e. Although our individual
2 GROSS GLOBAL SCOPES 1 AND 2 GHG EMISSIONS
operations are below the U.S. Environmental Protection
900,000 0.0049
Agency (EPA) threshold for permitting and reporting
GHG emissions, we are ready to do our part to reduce 0.0048
800,000
overall GHG emissions and mitigate the effects of climate
0.0047
change. 700,000
0.0046
2021 represents the first year that Vulcan is reporting 600,000
Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions fully in alignment with 0.0045
500,000
SASB standards. We refined our Scope 1 methodology
0.0044
by using a more comprehensive data-collection process
400,000
in 2021 to reflect a more accurate representation of 0.0043
our operational emissions — one we are committed to
300,000
0.0042
improving.
200,000
0.0041
As a result, our performance shows an increase in Scope
1 emissions from 2020 to 2021. Prior accounting assumed 100,000 0.0040
a portion of diesel fuel purchased by Vulcan and used
0 0.0039
by Vulcan fleets to transport our products would be
considered Scope 3 emissions. These emissions are now
accounted for in Scope 1 calculations. Moving forward,
DATA
the Scopes 1 and 2 emissions data and methodology
INDEX
Gross global Scope 1 emissions, metric tons (t) CO e
results from 2021 will serve as our baseline to provide a 2
clear look at our operations and progress.
Gross global Scope 2 emissions, metric tons (t) CO e
2
We aim to reduce our carbon footprint through reduction
Gross global Scopes 1 and 2 emissions per ton shipped, metric tons (t) CO e/metric tons shipped
2
of both Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions.
Vulcan Materials Company 2021 ESG Report 28
e
OC
)t(
snot
cirteM
2
2017 2018 2019 2020 2021
CO2e
Emissions
per
Metric
Tons
Shipped
HOME
Energy efficiency is at the core of our Scope 1 targets. energy sector continues to pursue decarbonization
Through our continuous evaluation of processes, we goals, we are proud to report that our electricity supply
have identified opportunities to reduce our carbon from both regulated and deregulated markets is cleaner
footprint and improve the efficiency of our quarrying today than ever before. We have made significant
operations as well as our distribution and transport strides in 2021, including partnering with local utilities
network operations. to secure cleaner, more sustainable electricity and
reducing our usage during peak demand hours. This
Progress is tracked at the facility and corporate level
initial progress will aid us in creating the road map to a
through our Energy Management team. Both groups
future electricity model.
work in close collaboration to develop and execute
“At Vulcan, we know that
efficiency projects. Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)
renewable energy isn’t just
are used by every plant, measuring kilowatt-hours (kWh)
per ton of material produced, with a financial bonus tied THE WAY FORWARD WITH SCOPE 3 GHG
good for the environment –
to incentivize reduced energy intensity and measurable
EMISSIONS
cost savings. it’s good for business. That is
We recognize that activities and materials
If a plant is not on track to meet its target, the facility why we have been prioritizing
across our value chain — such as inputs from
team will invite our Energy Managers on-site to help
supply chain, employee commuting and
sourcing renewable energy
identify energy efficiency opportunities and create a
delivery of products by third parties — have
strategic improvement plan. This team-led process the potential to emit GHG emissions and for years. We will continue
has successfully lowered our overall usage and costs
impact the environment. While we cannot fully
to seek out opportunities
associated with electricity, natural gas and propane.
control these sources, we are committed to
understanding the impact of our upstream and for energy innovation to
Partnering with local utilities also helps us improve the
downstream activities so we can identify areas
energy efficiency of our operations. We utilize our bill
reduce the footprint of our
we can influence and improve. We are currently
pay provider’s data management system to evaluate
DATA identifying Scope 3 sources and determining
operations and reduce our
site-specific and company-wide energy consumption.
INDEX
the processes and data collection necessary
We are then able to pull reports and track progress on
energy costs.”
to perform a Scope 3 emissions inventory. We
energy efficiency initiatives more effectively.
have set a goal to both complete a Scope 3
With regard to Scope 2 emissions, our goal is to source inventory in 2022 and to set a science-based
alternative and renewable energy sources for the target focused on addressing our complete Joel Huguley
majority of our electricity use. In 2021, our total energy GHG footprint. Strategic Sourcing Manager, Energy,
consumed was 14.4 million gigajoules (GJ). As the Vulcan Materials Company
VVuullccaann MMaatteerriiaallss CCoommppaannyy 22002211 EESSGG RReeppoorrtt 2299
HOME
ENERGY AND GHG EMISSIONS
In 2021, Vulcan implemented several initiatives to reduce our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions by improving the energy efficiency of our operations through
renewable and clean energy partnerships.*
FLORIDA POWER & LIGHT SOLAR TOGETHER PROGRAM
• Represents the largest community solar program in the U.S.
• Began sourcing solar energy and receiving the associated RECs in May 2021
• Represents approximately 42% of our electricity usage in Florida
ENERGY STORAGE
• Current operation of an
CALIFORNIA SOLAR DEVELOPMENT
energy storage facility
• Slated for commercial operation in 2023 at our Durbin, California
plant, with eight additional
• Committed to two 25-year projects at our San Emidio (1.4 megawatt [MW] capacity) and
facilities in California
Pleasanton facilities (13 MW capacity)
projected to be operational
• Projected to represent approximately 23% of our electricity usage in California
by end of 2023
• Reduction of our electricity
demand in peak electricity
market conditions
TEXAS WIND ENERGY
DATA
• Projected energy savings
• Partnered with the Live Oak Wind Facility in San Angelo, Texas
INDEX
and reduction of GHG
• Began receiving wind energy and receiving the associated RECs in June 2021 emissions by approximately
155 metric tons
• Committed to a 94-month term for 24,008 megawatt hours (MWh) annually
• Projected to represent approximately 26% of our electricity usage in Texas
*Approximate %'s are based on 2021 kWh usage as is expected to vary year over year as a function of business, production and demand.
VVuullccaann MMaatteerriiaallss CCoommppaannyy 22002211 EESSGG RReeppoorrtt 3300
HOME
Climate Change
As responsible stewards of our environment and
communities, we understand the effects of climate
change and our role in how we impact it. There
are both physical and transition risks we take into
consideration when working to integrate climate-
related risks into our overall ESG, business, risk
management and facility emergency response
strategic planning.
Our goal is to minimize our risks to our team
members, our environment, physical assets and
economic performance. As climate change evolves
over the long term, we plan to position ourselves to
successfully and continuously deliver high-quality
construction materials for decades to come —
sustainably and responsibly.
From reducing the water requirements of our
operations to partnering with sustainability-
focused partners and proactively reporting our
carbon footprint and climate change risks, we can
continuously improve our efforts. We are committed
DATA
to become more equipped to adapt and lead the
INDEX
industry toward more sustainable construction
materials to build environmentally friendly and
resilient infrastructures across the globe.
VVuullccaann MMaatteerriiaallss CCoommppaannyy 22002211 EESSGG RReeppoorrtt 3311
HOME
Air Quality
Vulcan uses state-of-the-art control equipment, including
dust suppression and mechanical systems. Dust suppression
Accurately quantifying and tracking our systems apply water through high-pressure, low-flow nozzles
PM emissions are produced
emissions helps us create initiatives that protect that properly wet the material without flooding the equipment.
during the aggregates
the air quality for our team members, the Water trucks are used to suppress dust from haul loads and
production process when larger
local communities and environment. In 2021, stockpiles. Mechanical systems used to collect PM include
rocks are broken down into
we established an initiative to inventory the baghouses and other dust filtration equipment.
smaller rocks.
emission sources at our plants and determine
improvement areas. This inventory will now be
integrated into our digital platform to ensure
accurate air emissions data can be recorded
Combustion Emissions,
and monitored closely.
combustion-related by-products We prioritize preventing unnecessary emissions by
Most of our sites are classified as minor or like carbon monoxide (CO), operating our plants efficiently and at the correct
synthetic minor sources of air pollutants and nitrogen oxides (NOx) and sulfur temperatures to prevent increases in fuel consumption.
operate under federally authorized state oxides (SOx), are produced We diligently inspect and properly maintain our plants,
or local permitting programs. Under these from our hot-mix asphalt (HMA) ensuring that pollution control equipment is operating
programs, we manage air pollutants specific plants and company fleet correctly.
to the type of operations. Particulate Matter vehicles when fuels are burned.
(PM) and Combustion Emissions are our most
common air pollutants. We strive to go above
and beyond air permit conditions and maintain
levels below the required thresholds at our
Trackout is a
Minimizing trackout of material onto public roads is a priority
DATA facilities.
source for PM
for our operations. Common controls for trackout include
INDEX
which is regulated
a combination of rumble strips on entrance and exit areas,
HOW VULCAN HELPS PROTECT OUR
as an air pollutant.
AIR QUALITY wheel washes or truck sprays and pavement leading up to
It is the soil, mud, dirt or other
the exit from the facility. When trackout cannot be completely
The following solutions are how Vulcan
debris tracked onto paved public
eliminated, we utilize operations or commercial street
currently helps protect our air quality. As part of
roadways by vehicles leaving a
sweepers to appropriately clean roads.
our ESG commitment, we will continuously seek
plant or construction location.
ways to reduce air pollutant emissions from our
operations.
VVuullccaann MMaatteerriiaallss CCoommppaannyy 22002211 EESSGG RReeppoorrtt 3322
HOME
Land Use and Biodiversity
When it comes to minimizing impacts to land, water When beneficial to the local community, we establish
and biodiversity, we take a holistic approach. Our land community advisory groups, which include people
management operations consider land before, during from the community and Vulcan personnel. Together,
and after operation. The presence of wetlands, waters, they sit down and discuss Vulcan facility performance,
endangered species, cultural resources and proximity perception and areas for improvement.
to property boundaries and neighbors are all factors we
We also use our site development process to plan for
keep in mind during site development.
future site reclamation. By beginning the project with
By leveraging this comprehensive approach, we can a vision for end-of-life reclamation goals, we can make
make thoughtful decisions during site development, operational decisions that meet and go beyond state
helping minimize potential impacts on the environment. mining reclamation regulations.
Our environmental specialists, land managers,
Many of our former quarry sites have been reclaimed
geologists, engineers, hydrologists and external affairs
as drinking water reservoirs, improving the resiliency
personnel collaborate with key external stakeholders
of natural resources for local communities. Because
to incorporate state-of-the-art environmental controls
quarries are deeper than they are wide, they have a
while mining infrastructure materials.
smaller land footprint than traditional reservoirs. They
In addition to land considerations, we prioritize also evaporate less water daily, making them an ideal
community engagement to ensure we are meeting location for water conservation and storage.
and addressing the needs, wants and concerns of our
Our retired production sites have also become aquifer
neighbors. During site development, we begin by
recharge basins, public parks, habitat mitigation banks,
sending letters that explain the project to potential site
DATA
wetlands, productive farmland and residential and
neighbors. We invite the community to meetings with
INDEX
commercial developments. We listen to and collaborate
Vulcan subject matter experts to ask questions and learn
with our neighbors to determine the highest and best
more about the project. We also use social media and
use for the land that will support local communities.
site-specific project websites to conduct community
outreach.
VVVuuulllcccaaannn MMMaaattteeerrriiiaaalllsss CCCooommmpppaaannnyyy 222000222111 EEESSSGGG RRReeepppooorrrttt 333333
For active sites, we manage impacts to land and biodiversity OUR NATIONAL PARTNERSHIP WITH THE WILDLIFE HABITAT COUNCIL
HOME
through implementing best practice controls to limit impacts
The Wildlife Habitat Council’s (WHC's) Corporate Wildlife Habitat Certification/International
off-site and by complying with all permit requirements. Often,
Accreditation Program recognizes commendable wildlife habitat management and
our sites provide some of the last refuge for wildlife, especially
environmental education programs at individual sites. Vulcan has been a proud national
in more developed areas. We establish buffers around our
partner of WHC since 1990 when our Sanders quarry became the first site in the U.S. to obtain
sites and maintain wetlands, both of which benefit local
certification by WHC.
wildlife and natural resources. Our on-site operations teams
conduct regular environmental inspections to ensure proper Since then, Vulcan has received accreditation for 44 quarry sites containing wildlife
management of these areas. Plus, we engage expert third- enhancement programs. WHC was developed in 1988 to restore and improve wildlife
party consultants, as needed, for certain projects. environments through the help of corporations, conservation organizations and individuals. It
is a nonprofit, nonlobbying organization that assists landowners in turning unused lands into
In addition, we partner with regulatory agencies and
environmentally safe and flourishing ecosystems. For more information about WHC, visit
environmental nonprofits across our operational footprint
www.wildlifehc.org.
to support the protection and management of local natural
resources and wildlife. Protecting land and biodiversity
for future generations is a core tenet at Vulcan. While our
SUPPORTING LOCAL WATER RESERVES IN OUR COMMUNITIES
operations have long met the highest levels of regulatory
In 2021, we partnered with the city of Atlanta to convert our Bellwood Quarry into a reservoir.
compliance, we are now focused on building a more proactive
This reservoir will serve as an emergency water supply for Atlanta, holding more than 2 billion
approach to conservation and engagement.
gallons of water from the Chattahoochee River. This amount is enough backup water supply
to last between 30 and 90 days — a significant improvement from the city’s previous reserve of
“At Sac Tun and Vulcan, we make a point
three to five days. We are proud to have worked with the city of Atlanta to provide an extremely
valuable asset that protects and serves local communities.
of going beyond regulatory compliance
and focusing on long-term environmental
AN UNEXPECTED CASE OF CONSERVATION ENGAGEMENT
commitments, especially our programs
One of the most unexpected cases of conservation engagement in Vulcan’s history took place
to protect priority endemic, threatened
DATA at our quarry in Fort Meyers, Florida. In 2020, a pair of snowy plovers — a threatened species
INDEX
or endangered species —and supporting of small shorebird known for nesting on sandy beaches — nested in the quarry. Our operations
team worked to accommodate the pair while adhering to the conservation requirements
priority ecosystems and vulnerable
associated with their status as a threatened species. When the birds were joined by four
additional nesting pairs at the quarry the following year, we realized a more sustainable solution
communities.”
was needed.
We partnered with our local U.S. Fish and Wildlife (USFW) office and the regional Audubon
Karla Paola Gonzalez
Society to come up with a solution. To draw the birds away from the active quarry, we set
Sac Tun Sustainability Manager,
aside two separate habitats totaling 10 acres, creating safe nesting grounds for the threatened
Vulcan Materials Company
species.
VVuullccaann MMaatteerriiaallss CCoommppaannyy 22002211 EESSGG RReeppoorrtt 3344
REFORESTATION IN MEXICO
HOME
At Vulcan's Sac Tun operation near Playa del Carmen, Quintana Roo,
Mexico, we are committed to restoring and reforesting quarried areas.
We do this with natural vegetation in order to recreate the ecosystems on
which our local flora and fauna depend. Since we began closely recording
data about our reforestation efforts, we have planted an average of 2,885
trees per hectare, much more than the 500 recommended by the National
Forestry Commission (CONAFOR), and achieved a 90% survival rate.
Over a nearly 20-year time span, the company has planted approximately
80,000 trees. We also maintain nearly 30% of our land as protected forest
and as a natural forest conservation area, which contains three Mayan
archaeological sites and four cenotes.
We reforest with native vegetation, including trees, bushes, seedlings,
grasses and other plants that were extracted prior to operations using
cuttings of branches from older trees as well as seedlings that we grow
in our forest nursery, created in 1990 with the support of the local
community. At the nursery we identify, collect, protect and propagate 23
threatened plant species, which are transplanted to reforest our property
and are also donated to the local community, including schools, parks and
public spaces.
In addition to a prolific nursery, we have built a team of environmental
specialists, biologists, hydrologists, geologists and forestry experts to help
us design strategies to establish corridors of forested land between the
quarried lakes and the cenotes so that fauna can roam freely and have
ample access to these freshwater sources.
DATA
INDEX
DID YOU KNOW?
Vulcan recently announced an expansion of the tree nursery
to increase the production of seedlings from 20,000 to
200,000 per year.
VVuullccaann MMaatteerriiaallss CCoommppaannyy 22002211 EESSGG RReeppoorrtt 3355
HOME
Waste Reduction and Recycling
Taking a proactive approach to waste management by seeking opportunities to reduce our waste through
process improvement and recycling is a key imperative for Vulcan. Not only does this approach benefit our local
communities and environment, but it is also beneficial to our business model — making this a win-win strategy.
Reusing materials allows us to reduce our raw materials spend and to produce more sustainable products.
Currently, our primary waste streams are generated during vehicle and equipment maintenance. Waste produced
during these activities can include used oil, antifreeze and miscellaneous solvents. We dispose of universal waste
such as used batteries and light bulbs, sending these waste streams to recycling facilities, where applicable. In
addition, where we generate hazardous waste, as defined by the California Department of Toxic Substances Control
(DTSC), we follow all regulatory requirements to dispose of this waste properly.
2021 WASTE AND
RECYCLING SNAPSHOT*
DID YOU KNOW?
2% WASTE
In 2021, Vulcan transitioned to using one waste TO DISPOSAL
removal vendor across all operations to help
reduce overall costs and create a more streamlined
approach to waste data tracking. In the future,
DATA waste tracking will be integrated into our digital
INDEX platform so that waste manifests and their data are
automatically uploaded into our system. As part
of a checks and balances approach, we also utilize
a third-party consultant to review our waste bills
98% WASTE DIVERTED
for variations and discrepancies to identify outlier
FROM DISPOSAL
facilities where we can make improvements.
*Diversion calculation only includes regulated waste.
For more information refer to Performance Data Table
VVuullccaann MMaatteerriiaallss CCoommppaannyy 22002211 EESSGG RReeppoorrtt 3366
HOME
Water
Water is an important input for many of our We comply with all applicable federal, state and local
operations processes at Vulcan. We use water for permit requirements regarding water and discharge,
filtration, stormwater collection and dust control. We including regular testing by outside analytical
understand that water scarcity is already a risk for some laboratories. Water used in operations is treated to
communities. We also understand the growing impacts reduce the amount of Total Suspended Solids (TSS) so
of climate change continue to threaten to increase and that the water can be recycled. In cases where excess
expand that risk. For these reasons, we remain steadfast is present, it is safely discharged. We also collect
in our commitment to reducing water requirements stormwater that falls within our site boundaries and
of our operations. We are dedicated to creating more store it in pond systems or mined-out quarry pits to
sustainable products and practices to reduce the use in place of groundwater. This reduces our need to
impacts of water risks to and from our operations. extract local ground or surface water for our operations.
To do this, we evaluate the potential impacts of our Tracking complete and accurate water usage is critical
water requirements. This means examining what to help us understand our water footprint baseline and
impact our operations could have on surface water, then set meaningful water-reduction goals. Today, we
groundwater and wetlands in our site decisions, are working to integrate water regulatory requirements
planning and management processes. We look for and Discharge Monitoring Report (DMR) information
opportunities to capture and recycle water throughout into our digital platform. This will allow us to better
the production process. This includes using closed- assess our water impact and identify opportunities to
loop systems that recycle water for reuse after material reduce our water usage.
washing. We also partner with government agencies on
DATA municipal water management projects to protect and
INDEX
improve the water supply for the communities in which
we operate.
VVuullccaann MMaatteerriiaallss CCoommppaannyy 22002211 EESSGG RReeppoorrtt 3377
HOME
Supply Chain Management and
Sustainable Procurement
At Vulcan, we have a strong commitment to supporting supplier diversity. In 2021, we worked with more
than 12,724 suppliers across the country to procure the materials, goods and services we need to operate.
As part of our strategic sourcing process, we engage diverse suppliers to include them in opportunities
to secure business or grow business with Vulcan. In the future, we are looking to increase our efforts to
provide opportunities to all minority-, women-, disability- and veteran-owned businesses. Company-wide,
we place significant value on the contributions diverse suppliers bring to our operations. Currently, we
are in the process of introducing our new Vulcan Way of Supplier Diversity Program, which will continue
building relationships with diverse suppliers across our operations and integrating ESG ratings into our
supplier evaluation process.
“From everyday office items to heavy machinery and equipment for
our operations, we are buying better and buying smarter. Our ability to
source strategically is fundamentally linked to our ability to perform for
our customers.”
DATA
INDEX
Amanda Lucas-White
Vice President, Procurement,
Vulcan Materials Company
VVuullccaann MMaatteerriiaallss CCoommppaannyy 22002211 EESSGG RReeppoorrtt 3388
HOME
Neighbors and
Community
BEING A GOOD CITIZEN
DATA
INDEX INDIGENOUS AND TRIBAL RELATIONS
COMMUNITY RELATIONS AND DISASTER AID
VULCAN MATERIALS COMPANY FOUNDATION
Vulcan Materials Company 2021 ESG Report 39
HOME
Being a Good Citizen
One of our core tenets at Vulcan is being a good
citizen and responsible steward of the communities in
DID YOU KNOW?
which we operate. From local community groups and
“When we begin work
philanthropic organizations to government officials,
supply chain partners and Indigenous groups, we on a greenfield site, our
Vulcan’s community efforts and engagement
believe in being active and engaged neighbors. Our
focus on six priority areas: primary focus is to engage
responsibility is to build strong relationships that
support strong communities. • Education
stakeholders in the right
We regularly hold open and productive dialogue • Environmental stewardship
way, right away … When
with our stakeholders and community neighbors as
• Arts and culture
you’re aiming to become
soon as we begin the permitting process. This open
communication continues throughout site operations • Civic and charitable programs
a long-term partner and
to help build trust and understanding. It is important
• Health and human services
to us that our neighbors know we are committed to member of the community,
being a responsible partner within our communities.
• Employee-chosen organizations
we have to address not only
We also know that being a good neighbor and citizen
By engaging and investing in long-term
concerns and questions, but
is not just essential to maintaining our social license
community partnerships, we can contribute to
to operate — it is the right thing to do. Through
the growth and prosperity of our neighbors the needs and goals of that
volunteer hours, team member engagement and
and communities while operating in a
community. That’s our role as
both material and financial donations to organizations
sustainable, viable way for many years to
DATA
in need, we create meaningful change in the
come.
INDEX a responsible partner.”
communities in which we operate.
Jimmy Fleming
Vice President, Permitting & External Affairs,
Vulcan Materials Company
VVuullccaann MMaatteerriiaallss CCoommppaannyy 22002211 EESSGG RReeppoorrtt 4400
HOME
Indigenous and
Tribal Relations
Vulcan recognizes and respects the tribal sovereignty of the federally
recognized Native American tribes across the country and other
Indigenous peoples outside the United States. Our commitment to
being a good neighbor includes being a respectful, collaborative
partner to the Indigenous groups with which we engage. We
maintain open and productive communication with tribal leaders and
organizations.
We are also compliant, where applicable, with Section 106 of the
National Historic Preservation Act. This act requires tribal consultation
on all activities that may affect property of cultural or religious
significance to tribes.
Our Mexico-based operation, Sac Tun, has ongoing long-term
relationships with the Indigenous Mayan communities in Playa Del
Carmen, Cozumel and Tulum. Through their Sac Tun Volunteers
program, team members volunteered 36,500 hours of community
service in 2020 to promote health, education and environmental
DATA conversation in Playa del Carmen and Cozumel as well as the Mayan
INDEX communities of Yaxche and Sahcab Mucuy in Tulum.
Across our Sac Tun operations, our conservation plans protect Mayan
archaeological findings located on our sites. To date, all archaeological
areas discovered have been explored, mapped and registered by
the Instituto Nacional de Antropología e Historia (INAH), or National
Institute of Anthropology and History. These sites are monitored by
the INAH, and INAH staff have continuous unlimited access to all
archaeological areas.
VVuullccaann MMaatteerriiaallss CCoommppaannyy 22002211 EESSGG RReeppoorrtt 4411
HOME Community Relations and Disaster Aid
Part of being a good citizen within the communities we operate is stepping up in times of need. The actions of our
Grandin Sand Plant facility in Grandin, Florida, over the last two years are a prime example of living The Vulcan Way.
GRANDIN SAND PLANT TEAM MEMBERS IN ACTION “The Grandin Sand Plant
• Coordinated COVID-19-safe community events
team was faced with a
• Provided support to federal, state and local government clients to
number of operational and
help rebuild from Hurricane Irma and Hurricane Matthew along
the Florida coast personal challenges in 2020
• Worked with the Army Corps of Engineers, the Federal
— and they more than rose
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and Flagler County
to the task at hand. Their
officials to support the reconstruction of Flagler County beaches
to improve public usability and protection from future storm
steadfast commitment to
events
their neighbors, families,
• Volunteered 183 hours with the Santa Fe Audubon Society
• Observed 69 total species while bird monitoring colleagues and friends is
• Reported the first-ever documented sighting of an American
evident in how they engage
avocet in Putnam County
with their community and
• Participated in the fifth Annual Christmas Bird Count
DATA • Supported a number of local schools in the Putnam County how they operate their
INDEX region where nearly 20% of the population lives below the
facility.”
poverty line and a number of schools fall within Title I designation
• Continued our five-year business education partnership with local
schools
Janet Kavinoky
• Supported the Sunshine State Young Readers Award (SSYRA) Vice President, External
Program to help improve literacy among young readers Affairs and Corporate
Communications, Vulcan
• Made material and financial contributions to four schools and
Materials Company
nine local organizations
VVuullccaann MMaatteerriiaallss CCoommppaannyy 22002211 EESSGG RReeppoorrtt 4422
HOME
Vulcan Materials Company Foundation
Established in 1988, the Vulcan Materials Company matching is a way for us to support schools, universities
Foundation supports community programs across the U.S. and organizations that are important to employees while
through charitable contributions especially focused on creating relationships within the communities in which we
“Through the Foundation,
education and environmental stewardship. In addition, operate.
support is provided to furthering cultural preservation, Vulcan makes meaningful
Vulcan encourages all employees to volunteer their
economic development and health services.
time and talents to organizations in their communities. contributions in our
Our Matching Gifts Program uses company funds to Employees provide many hours of service to a variety of
operating communities
match contributions to charitable organizations made by causes: food and donation drives literacy, educational
employees with emphasis on educational institutions. Gift programs and health services initiatives.
across the country. We are
most impactful when our
employees volunteer and
FOUNDATION GIVING EMPLOYEE MATCHING
actively engage in the local
GIVING BY CATEGORY
45%
communities we support.
EDUCATION
7% ARTS
It’s essential to us that we
9% & CULTURE
ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP are socially responsible and
that we truly care about our
9%
DATA
ARTS & CULTURE 4%
INDEX people and our neighbors.”
HOSPITALS
17%
CIVIC & COMMUNITY AFFAIRS
Carol Maxwell
Manager, Vulcan Materials Company
20%
Foundation, Vulcan Materials Company
HEALTH & HUMAN SERVICES
89%
EDUCATION
VVuullccaann MMaatteerriiaallss CCoommppaannyy 22002211 EESSGG RReeppoorrtt 4433
HOME
Governance
BOARD OVERSIGHT
DATA
INDEX INTERNAL OVERSIGHT
ASSOCIATION MEMBERSHIPS
Vulcan Materials Company 2021 ESG Report 44
HOME
Board Oversight
Our Board of Directors oversees Vulcan company to expressly include ESG oversight, including climate
performance and strategy at the highest level. In 2021, change management, as part of its function.
we were proud to reelect three directors to the Board:
In 2021, Vulcan reached out to shareholders “Board oversight and
Thomas A. Fanning, Cynthia L. Hostetler and Richard T.
representing approximately 60% of our outstanding
O’Brien. engagement with our ESG
shares to discuss our ESG efforts, including
The Board is comprised of 11 directors, all of whom are sustainability, carbon reduction, diversity and inclusion, efforts is essential to
independent directors apart from Tom Hill, the chairman culture, executive compensation, corporate governance
our success as a viable,
and CEO. There are six committees on the Vulcan matters and the health and safety of our employees.
Board: Audit; Compensation; Executive; Finance; The feedback from these meetings is then presented to
sustainable company for
Governance; and Safety, Health and Environmental our Board to be considered in strategic ESG decision-
the long-term. To be good
Affairs. All the Board committees, other than the making.
Executive Committee, are comprised of entirely
stewards of our people,
Further information about the composition, structure,
independent, nonmanagement directors.
tenure and compensation of our Board of Directors
our environment and our
The Governance Committee serves as the nominating and Board committees can be found in our 2021 Proxy
committee and is responsible for identifying and Statement. communities, we have to
assessing director candidates, including making
maintain a governance
recommendations to our Board regarding such
candidates. The Board is committed to actively seeking
BOARD DIVERSITY structure that supports Board
out diverse candidates. The Governance Committee
engagement and support
considers all of the factors listed under “Board
DATA
Composition and Director Qualifications” set forth in
INDEX 11 of our ESG program in a
White Men
Vulcan’s Proxy Statement when recommending director
nominees. perpetual way.”
White Women
In addition, our Governance Committee is tasked with Board
providing regular counsel and direction on Vulcan’s
Members
Denson Franklin III
ESG strategy. Updates are provided to the Governance
Black Man
Senior Vice President and General Counsel,
Committee routinely by Vulcan leadership. The
Vulcan Materials Company
Governance Committee charter has been amended
VVuullccaann MMaatteerriiaallss CCoommppaannyy 22002211 EESSGG RReeppoorrtt 4455
HOME
Internal Oversight
We developed our ESG Steering Committee, which is comprised of executives from across the organization, to manage ESG performance and initiatives. Supporting the
Steering Committee are four working groups comprised of subject matter experts who scope and develop our goals in key areas of our ESG performance. In 2021, the Steering
Committee reported on our progress to the Board's Governance Committee at each of the Committee meetings.
GOVERNANCE, STAKEHOLDER
EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT
SUPPLY CHAIN AND OPERATIONS PRODUCTS AND SERVICES ENGAGEMENT, TRANSPARENCY
AND WELL-BEING
AND DISCLOSURE
This working group ensures all This working group develops This working group supports This working group manages
team members are engaged goals, metrics and strategies innovation for low-carbon Vulcan and enhances the frequency and
and excited in their job for reducing the environmental products and services. This quality of our ESG data collection
functions. This includes team footprint, including the carbon includes strategies for making our and disclosure. This group also
members supporting ESG and footprint of our operations aggregates and cement products communicates with internal and
our climate change strategy. and supply chain. This group more environmentally friendly, external stakeholders to determine
This group also develops plans also focuses on initiatives such as incorporating CarbonCure what issues, including climate-
for team member development, involving energy-use efficiency, and reusing recycled materials. related risks, are most material to
talent attraction and retention. GHG emissions reduction and our shareholders, customers and
conservation of other natural employees.
resources.
DATA
INDEX
Association Memberships
Vulcan is a proud member of several industry associations that set industry best practices and inform our ESG and business strategies. In addition, we are part of business
associations that enable us to understand and advocate around material public policy and business issues that are not industry specific.
Vulcan Materials Company 2021 ESG Report 46
HOME
The Way Forward
2021 was truly a landmark year for Vulcan and the world, but there is always more work to be done. We are committed to moving forward and evolving our ESG programs. We
will be further defining our ESG goals to address our high-priority material topics and will also continue to report on the progress made by our business, people and partners
toward achieving these goals.
The Vulcan Way is The Way Forward. We have always been committed to doing the right thing, the right way, at the right time. Our ESG strategy is no different.
DATA
INDEX
VVuullccaann MMaatteerriiaallss CCoommppaannyy 22002211 EESSGG RReeppoorrtt 4477
Performance Data Table
HOME
METRIC 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021
Our Products Metrics
Amount recycled crushed aggregate base produced, metric tons (t) 1,697,670 1,849,073 1,919,254 1,246,347 2,275,723
Amount of reclaimed asphalt pavement used in hot mix asphalt, metric tons (t) 1,330,045 1,036,006 1,606,388 1,141,885 1,504,325
Our People Metrics1
Total number of employees 8,231 8,700 9,172 8,765 11,317
Total number of new hires2 2,049 2,049 2,008 1,189 2,889
Total number of veterans employed (self-identified) 587 599 555 526 629
Percentage of employees younger than 20 years old 0.5% 1% 1% 1% 1%
Percentage of employees age 20-29 years old 14.6% 16% 18% 17% 15%
Percentage of employees age 30-39 years old 20.6% 21% 21% 20% 20%
Percentage of employees age 40-49 years old 23.5% 23% 23% 22% 23%
Percentage of employees age 50-59 years old 29.1% 28% 26% 27% 27%
Percentage of employees age 60-69 years old 11% 11% 10% 11% 13%
Percentage of employees older than 70 years old 0.6% 1% 1% 1% 1%
Percentage of employees that identify as White 72% 72% 67.8% 71.3% 66.2%
DATA
INDEX
Percentage of employees that identify as Hispanic/Latino 16% 17% 16.7% 17.6% 20.9%
Percentage of employees that identify as Black 10% 10% 9.3% 9.1% 10.3%
Percentage of employees that identify as Asian 1% 1% 1.2% 1.1% 1.5%
Percentage of employees that identify as Other/Not Reported 1% 0% 5% 0.9% 1.1%
Percentage of board members that are women and/or Black, Indigenous, and People of
30% 22% 36% 36% 33%
Color (BIPOC)
1 All employee numbers include USCR employees unless otherwise stated
2 Does not include USCR employees added as part of USCR acquisition
Vulcan Materials Company 2021 ESG Report 48
HOME METRIC 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021
Percentage of board members that are Black, Indigenous, and People of Color (BIPOC) 10% 0% 9% 9% 9%
Percentage of board members that are over 50 years old 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
Percentage of employees that are men 88% 87.9% 88.1% 88% 88.9%
Percentage of employees that are women 12% 12.1% 11.9% 12% 11.1%
Total number of employee training hours3 N/A 215,000 225,000 111,683 251,320
Employee turnover rate4 N/A 21 19 20.3 20.9
Average employee tenure, years 11.6 11.6 10.9 10.7 9.65
Percentage of employees with 0-2 years tenure 26.5% 25% 30% 26% 23.3%
Percentage of employees with 2-5 years tenure 16.8% 20% 19% 21% 22.1%
Percentage of employees with 5-10 years tenure 8.3% 9% 10% 14% 20.7%
Percentage of employees with 10-20 years tenure 26.3% 24% 21% 18% 15.9%
Percentage of employees with over 20 years tenure 22% 22% 20% 21% 18.1%
Employee participation in 401(k) retirement benefits5 94 91.4 94.7 95 95
Safety and Health Metrics
MSHA Reportable Injury Rate 0.9 0.89 1.08 0.95 0.98
MSHA Reportable & OSHA Recordable Injury Rate Per 200,000 Hours Worked 0.99 0.92 1 0.93 1.01
Total recordable incident rate (TRIR)6 1.13 0.98 0.89 0.9 1.06
DATA
INDEX Lost time incident rate (LTIR) 0.32 0.33 0.36 0.48 0.43
Total Number of Near-miss incidents reported7 N/A 1,391 1,471 1,877 2,167
Percentage of Vulcan facilities with zero Lost-Time Injuries 95% 94% 94% 92% 94%
3 Does not include training hours for USCR employees
4 Does not include turnover rate of USCR employees
5 Does not include USCR employees, as they were not eligible to participate in Vulcan 401(k) retirement benefits until January 1, 2022
6 OSHA Recordable Rate
7 Near-miss tracking program and data collection began in 2018
Vulcan Materials Company 2021 ESG Report 49
HOME METRIC 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021
Number of fatal accidents 0 0 2 3 0
Percentage of employees that participated in voluntary health screening8 97% 97% 96% N/A N/A
Percentage of MSHA respirable dust/silica exposure sampling within standard8 99% 98% 98% N/A N/A
Percentage of MSHA noise exposure sampling within standard8 98% 98% 96% N/A N/A
Hours of Safety & Health training delivered9 N/A 118,400 123,257 110,350 131,477
Number of Safety & Health audits conducted10 N/A ~100 ~100 ~100 ~100
Our Communities Metrics
Total Foundation, non-Foundation and matching gifts giving and support, ($USD) 8,884,729 7,539,688 7,354,490 6,954,510 7,067,371
Total Foundation giving, ($USD) 3,335,810 3,373,729 4,306,011 4,614,115 5,250,380
Percentage of Foundation giving towards Education 37% 40% 39% 43% 45%
Percentage of Foundation giving towards Environmental Stewardship 14% 13% 16% 11% 9%
Percentage of Foundation giving towards Arts & Culture 10% 8% 8% 9% 9%
Percentage of Foundation giving towards Civic & Community 10% 12% 14% 14% 17%
Percentage of Foundation giving towards Health & Human Services 28% 27% 22% 23% 20%
Total Matching Gifts (corporate contributions to match employee giving to eligible
473,395 437,246 581,674 391,785 300,997
nonprofit organizations), ($USD)
Matching Gifts: Education (%) 72% 83% 79% 85% 89%
DATA Matching Gifts: Hospitals (%) 1% 1% 3% 1% 4%
INDEX
Matching Gifts: Arts & Culture (%) 12% 13% 16% 14% 7%
Percentage of Employee Matching giving towards Employee Disaster Relief 14% 3% 3% 0% 0%
Foundation and Matching Gift recipients (#) 830 799 785 814 837
Total number of meals donated 339,169 430,198 469,601 519,772 601,404
8 Due to COVID-19 safety protocols, comparable voluntary health screening data is not available
9 Tracking of safety & health training hours began in 2018
10 Tracking the number of safety & health audits conducted began in 2018
Vulcan Materials Company 2021 ESG Report 50
HOME METRIC 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021
Amount of food donated (lbs) 407,003 516,238 590,873 623,726 721,685
Number of partner schools 246 238 235 225 229
Number of scholarships awarded 116 141 154 175 206
Amount of scholarship funds awarded, ($USD) 481,400 476,507 515,793 664,485 910,879
Environmental Stewardship
Number of environmental agency inspections11 718 738 715 540 666
Number of environmental agency citations 17 14 20 14 16
Percentage of citation-free agency inspections12 98% 98% 97% 99% 98%
Total land portfolio, Acres (ac) N/A ~240,000 ~240,001 ~240,002 ~242,763
Number of Wildlife Habitat Council (WHC) certified sites13 N/A 44 40 37 40
Amount of land managed for projects recognized by WHC, acres (ac) N/A N/A 11,720 11,720 6,300
Amount of land in conservation easements, acres (ac) N/A 5,500 6,300 6,300 N/A
Total fresh water withdrawn, Thousand cubic meters (m3)14 N/A N/A 7,653,743 N/A 7,880,704
Percentage of total fresh water withdrawn from groundwater 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
Percentage of total fresh water withdrawn from sea water 0% 0% 0% 0% 0%
Universal Waste15 diverted from disposal (t), (%) NA NA NA NA 2.5, 14.2%
Vehicle/Equipment Maintenance16 diverted from disposal (t), (%) NA NA NA NA 1,550, 99.1%
DATA
INDEX Gross global Scope 1 emissions, metric tons (t) CO e 592,159 588,92 626,221 625,905 826,863
2
Gross global Scope 1 emissions per million $ revenue, metric tons (t) CO e/million $ 152.2 134.4 127 128.9 148.9
2
Gross global Scope 1 emissions per tons produced, metric tons (t) CO e/metric tons
2 0.00293 0.00268 0.00267 0.00277 0.00344
shipped (t)
11 Information self-reported by divisions through internal environmental compliance management system
12 This number is calculated by subtracting the number of citations from the number of inspections and dividing by the number of inspections
13 This is the acreage that WHC reported to Vulcan for our Wildlife Habitat Council projects
14 This number is calculated by adding data from water meters on on-site water wells and water used for dust suppression controls
15 Universal Waste includes batteries, pesticides, mercury-containing equipment, lamps, aerosol cans
16 Vehicle/Equipment Maintenance includes antifreeze, fuels, lubricants, oils, oil filters, partswasher solvent and used oil
Vulcan Materials Company 2021 ESG Report 51
HOME METRIC 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021
Gross global Scope 2 emissions, metric tons (t) CO e 330,000 0362,248 371,778 339,341 318,221
2
Gross global Scope 2 emissions per million $ revenue, metric tons (t) CO e/million $ 84.8 82.6 75.4 69.9 57.3
2
Gross global Scope 2 emissions per tons produced, metric tons (t) CO e/metric tons
2 0.00163 0.00165 0.00158 0.0015 0.00133
shipped (t)
Total Gross Scope 1 and 2 emissions, metric tons (t) CO e 922,159 951,169 997,999 965,246 1,145,084
2
Gross global Scope 1 and 2 emissions per million $ revenue, metric tons (t) CO e/million $ 237.1 217 202.5 198.7 206
2
Gross global Scope 1 and 2 emissions per tons shipped, metric tons (t) CO e/metric tons
2 0.00457 0.00433 0.00425 0.00427 0.00477
shipped (t)
Production of Ozone Depleting Substances (ODS), metric tons (t) CFC-11 equivalent N/A N/A N/A N/A 0
Total energy consumed, Gigajoules (GJ)17 N/A N/A N/A N/A 14,424,594
Percentage of total energy consumed from grid electricity N/A N/A N/A N/A 20.8
Total energy consumed per tons shipped, Gigajoules (GJ)/metric tons shipped (t) N/A N/A N/A N/A 0.0586
Activity Metrics
Total annual production, metric tons (t)18 N/A N/A N/A N/A 246,118,486
Total revenue, (million $USD)19 3,890 4,383 4,929 4,856 5,090
Number of U.S. states served, excluding D.C., local markets surrounding our facilities in
20 20 20 20 22
Mexico, The Bahamas, U.S. Virgin Islands, and Canada20
Number of aggregate facilities21 375 351 366 380 404
DATA Number of hot mix asphalt facilities 64 67 70 70 69
INDEX
Number of ready-mixed concrete facilities22 57 46 53 46 173
Total annual production, metric tons (t) N/A N/A N/A N/A 246,118,486
Total revenue, (million $USD) 3,890 4,383 4,929 4,856 5,090
17 Calculated based on energy bills and fuel procurement records 21 Includes USCR aggregate facilities
18 Aggregate production, does not include USCR production 22 Includes USCR ready-mixed concrete facilities; USCR also has a fleet of
approximately 90 ‘volumetric’ mixer trucks that can be considered ‘mobile
19 Does not include USCR revenue
mini-plants’ serving major TX markets. See 2021 Vulcan 10-K for full footnote
20 Includes USCR aggregate facilities
Vulcan Materials Company 2021 ESG Report 52
HOME
SASB Framework Index
CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS SUSTAINABILITY ACCOUNTING STANDARD
SASB CODE ACCOUNTING METRIC REPORT SECTION OR RESPONSE
EM-CM-110a.1 Gross global Scope 1 emissions, percentage covered Energy & Greenhouse Gas Emissions Management and Performance.
under emissions-limiting regulations
Performance Data Table
EM-CM-110a.2 Discussion of long-term and short-term strategy Finding Energy Efficiencies
or plan to manage Scope 1 emissions, emissions
reduction targets, and an analysis of performance
against those targets
EM-CM-120a.1 Air emissions of the following pollutants: (1) NOx We recognize that accurately quantifying and tracking our emissions is essential to track our progress and
(excluding N O), (2) SOx, (3) particulate matter (PM10), set reduction goals. In 2021, we established an initiative to inventory the emission sources at our plants and
2
(4) dioxins/furans, (5) volatile organic compounds determine improvement areas. This inventory will be integrated into our Compliance Framework system so that
(VOCs), (6) polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs), air emissions data can be easily recorded and monitored in an accurate way.
and (7) heavy metals
Air Quality Management and Performance
EM-CM-130a.1 (1) Total energy consumed, (2) percentage grid Energy & Greenhouse Gas Emissions Management and Performance.
electricity, (3) percentage alternative, (4) percentage
Performance Data Table
renewable
EM-CM-140a.1 (1) Total fresh water withdrawn, (2) percentage We understand that accurate and complete water usage tracking is critical for us to baseline our water footprint
DATA
recycled, (3) percentage in regions with High or and set meaningful goals for water reduction. We are working to integrate water regulatory requirements and
INDEX
Extremely High Baseline Water Stress Discharge Monitoring Report (DMR) information into our Compliance Framework system. This will allow us to
better assess our water impact and identify opportunities to reduce our water usage.
Water Management and Performance
EM-CM-150a.1 Amount of waste generated, percentage hazardous, Waste Reduction & Recycling Management and Performance
percentage recycled
Performance Data Table
Vulcan Materials Company 2021 ESG Report 53
HOME SASB CODE ACCOUNTING METRIC REPORT SECTION OR RESPONSE
EM-CM-160a.1 Description of environmental management policies Biodiversity & Land Use Management and Performance
and practices for active sites
EM-CM-160a.2 Terrestrial acreage disturbed; percentage of impacted We do not currently track terrestrial acreage disturbed or the percentage of impacted area restored. However,
area restored we recognize that minimizing impacts to land, water and biodiversity is key to being responsible stewards of
our environment. We take a holistic approach to land management that considers land before, during and after
operation.
Biodiversity & Land Use Management and Performance
EM-CM-320a.1 (1) Total recordable incident rate (TRIR) and (2) near Vulcan tracks the total number of near misses annually to assess leading indicators for safety data.
miss frequency rate (NMFR) for (a) full-time employees
Safety Performance and Performance Data Table
and (b) contract employees
EM-CM-320a.2 Number of reported cases of silicosis Occupational Health & Industrial Hygiene
EM-CM-410a.1 Percentage of products that qualify for credits Vulcan products are used across the country and globe to build reliable buildings and infrastructure. We are
in sustainable building design and construction proud that our products are used in sustainable building and infrastructure design. Many of these projects are
certifications certified by recognized building design and construction certification organization.
Products and Services
EM-CM-410a.2 Total addressable market and share of market for We are actively working to reduce the energy, water and other impacts incurred during production of our
products that reduce energy, water and/or material products. We are also always innovating to create products that have smaller carbon or other environmental
impacts during usage and/or production footprints. Products and Service.
Environmental Stewardship
Activity Metric Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal Vulcan Materials Company was not involved in any legal proceedings associated with cartel activities, price
proceedings associated with cartel activities, price fixing and anti-trust activities.
DATA
fixing, and anti-trust activities
INDEX
Activity Metric Production by major product line Performance Data Table
Vulcan Materials Company 2021 ESG Report 54
HOME
TCFD Framework
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY do business. It is our responsibility to our shareholders, Board Oversight
customers and the Vulcan Family to begin evaluating
Vulcan Materials Company is the nation’s largest Our Board of Directors (Board) is comprised of 11
the climate-related risks and opportunities for our
producer of construction aggregates—primarily crushed directors, all of which are independent directors apart
business and develop well-defined plans and targets for
stone, sand and gravel—and a major producer of from Tom Hill, the Chairman, President and CEO.
addressing them.
aggregates-based construction materials, including hot There are six committees on the Vulcan Board: Audit,
mix asphalt and ready-mixed concrete. Our coast-to- Compensation, Executive, Finance, Governance, Safety,
Our mission is to provide quality products and services
coast footprint and strategic distribution network align Health and Environmental Affairs Committees. All the
which consistently meet our customers’ expectations; to
with and serve the nation’s growth centers. At Vulcan, Board committees, other than Executive Committee, are
be responsible stewards with respect to the safety and
we are guided by The Vulcan Way – Doing the Right composed of entirely independent, non-management
environmental impact of our operations and products;
Thing, the Right Way at the Right Time. directors.
and to drive value and superior returns for our
customers, employees, communities and shareholders.
Vulcan has over 400 active aggregates facilities, Our Governance Committee is tasked with providing
This Taskforce on Climate-related Financial Disclosures
70 hot mix asphalt facilities, and 240 ready-mixed regular counsel and direction on Vulcan’s ESG strategy.
(TCFD)-aligned report outlines how we will continue
concrete facilities, which also consume aggregates. All Updates are provided to the Governance Committee
to deliver on that mission in the face of global climate
facilities are located in the U.S. except for two quarries quarterly and their charter has been amended to
change impacts through our governance structure,
and marine terminals on Vancouver Island in British expressly include ESG oversight, including climate
strategy, risk management, metrics and targets.
Columbia, Canada, and Mexico’s Yucatan Peninsula. change management, as part of their function.
What we produce is largely used for building and
GOVERNANCE Regular, transparent communications with our
repairing valuable infrastructure such as bridges, roads,
shareholders and other key stakeholders around critical
Overview
waterworks, ports and to construct both residential and
ESG matters is essential to not only our ESG strategy but
non-residential buildings, manufacturing facilities, office For 65 years, Vulcan has been committed to leading
our business strategy overall. In 2021, we reached out
DATA
buildings, schools and hospitals. the industry and delivering exceptional value to our
INDEX to shareholders representing approximately 60% of our
shareholders. This commitment starts with our strong
We recognize that our operations and business have the outstanding shares to discuss our ESG efforts, including
corporate governance structure, which extends to our
potential to be impacted by climate change. Physical sustainability, carbon reduction, diversity and inclusion,
ESG and climate change strategy and oversight. Our
risks from a rise in global mean temperatures at or culture, executive compensation, corporate governance
approach to climate change management is overseen
above 2° Celsius could significantly impact our facilities matters and the health and safety of our employees.
at all levels of the organization through ESG governance
and supply chain in varying ways depending on The feedback from these meetings is presented to
structures and responsibilities.
geographical location. Evolving market, consumer and our Board so that it can be incorporated into our ESG
regulatory expectations could also affect the way we decision-making.
Vulcan Materials Company 2021 ESG Report 55
HOME
Management Oversight Products and Services: This working group contributes revenue, especially in coastal or other high-risk areas.
to our climate change strategy by supporting innovation Physical risks can be acute, like hurricanes or floods,
We developed our Executive ESG Steering Committee,
for low-carbon Vulcan products and services. This or chronic, like rising sea levels or long-term drought.
which is comprised of executives from across the
includes strategies for making our aggregates and Transition risks are those risks from the world changing
organization, to manage ESG performance and
cement products more environmentally friendly, such to a low-carbon economy, such as increased emissions
initiatives. This Steering Committee is broken into four
as incorporating CarbonCure or reusing recycled reporting obligations or shifting consumer preferences.
working groups to ensure proper focus on key areas
materials. Transition risks can be separated into four categories -
of our ESG performance: employee engagement and
policy and legal, technological, market and reputational
wellbeing; supply chain and operations; products and
Governance, Stakeholder Engagement, Transparency
– all of which could impact our operating costs or
services; and governance, stakeholder engagement and
and Disclosure: This working group contributes to our
change the demand for our products. We are evaluating
transparency disclosures. In 2021, these working groups
climate change strategy by managing and enhancing
the risks to our facilities and business overall so that
reported quarterly to the Governance Committee and
the frequency and quality of our ESG data collection
we can effectively incorporate them into our corporate
were responsible for scoping and developing our ESG
and disclosure. This working group also communicates
strategy and financial planning.
Goals.
with internal and external stakeholders to determine
what issues, including climate-related risks, are most We recognize that each type of climate-related risk
Supply Chain and Operations: This working group
material to our shareholders, customers and employees. may affect our facilities, businesses, and supply chain
contributes to our climate change strategy by
differently over different time frames. As such, we have
developing goals, metrics and strategies for reducing
Overview
defined these time horizons for our climate-related risks
the environmental footprint, including carbon footprint,
The effects of climate change will impact the
and opportunities assessments:
of our operations and supply chain. This group
construction materials industry, including sourcing
focuses on initiatives involving energy use efficiency,
• Short-term: 0-1 years
and production. Vulcan provides a diverse line of
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions reduction and
aggregates, hot asphalt mix, ready-mixed concrete and
conservation of other natural resources. • Medium-term: 1-10 years
paving materials to the U.S. construction industry. With
Employee Engagement and Wellbeing: This working a multi-national, coast-to-coast footprint, our operations • Long-term: 10+ years
group contributes to our climate change strategy by and ability to deliver to our customers have the
We will continue to evaluate potential risks to our
DATA
ensuring that employees at all levels of the organization potential to be impacted by climate change in several
business and update their expected time horizon so
INDEX
are engaged and excited in their job functions, ways.
that we can take appropriate mitigation measures. The
including the support of ESG and climate change
The key risks we face as a company can be put into two tables on the following pages outline the specific risks
strategy. This group develops plans for employee
categories: physical risks and transition risks. Physical identified and tracked by Vulcan.
development, talent attraction and retention as well,
risks, such as increased severity of extreme weather
ensuring Vulcan has the best talent to execute its
events, may impact our facilities and reduce our
climate change strategy and drive business continuity.
Vulcan Materials Company 2021 ESG Report 56
TASKFORCE FOR CLIMATE RELATED DISCLOSURE FRAMEWORK
HOME
CLIMATE RELATED RISKS
Physical Risks
Description Potential Impact Mitigation Strategy
Acute Physical Risks
According to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Major business interruptions caused by tornados, fire, We recognize the potential severity of acute physical climate
(IPCC), a failure by carbon policy to mitigate global average floods or other events could cause interruptions at our risks to our business.
temperature increases would result in even more frequent manufacturing or distribution centers. This could result
For example, many of our manufacturing facilities are located
and intense weather events than experienced today. increased capital costs to repair damages and lost revenue
in coastal areas, which makes them more susceptible to
from stopping production.
Time Horizon: Short to long-term increasing hurricanes and floods. We are working to integrate
Our business is intricately linked to the welfare of our climate-related physical risks into our business strategy, risk
employees and stability of local infrastructure. More management and facility emergency response planning so that
consistent threatening weather events pose threats to our we can minimize our risks to our employees, physical assets
people and assets. These negative impacts on our workforce and economic performance.
could result in higher operating and labor costs.
Chronic Physical Risks Physical Risks
Long-term changes to climate conditions, including rising Chronic physical risks will make it increasingly difficult to We understand that the physical risks from climate change will
mean temperatures, rising sea levels, increased precipitation predict the stability of our supply chain and operations. evolve over the long-term. We plan to continue to deliver high-
levels, droughts and extreme heat waves are resulting in In coastal areas, increasing controls may have to be quality construction materials to our customers for decades to
changes to the stability of work sites across the globe. implemented to protect facilities from rising sea levels, come, and therefore need to integrate chronic physical risks
increasing our operating costs. Many of our operations into our business continuity planning.
Time Horizon: Medium to long-term
require water as a critical input. In areas of increasing water
We are committed to reducing the water requirements of
stress due to climate change, our operating costs could
our operations to make our products more sustainable and
increase.
reduce the impacts of water risks to and from our operations.
DATA
Our quarry sites also frequently support the water stability
INDEX
of communities after operation by becoming reservoirs for
regular and emergency water supplies.
You can read more about how our sites support biodiversity
and water reserves in the Biodiversity & Land Use section of
our 2021 ESG Report.
Vulcan Materials Company 2021 ESG Report 57
Transitional Risks
HOME
Description Potential Impact Mitigation Strategy
Policy and Legal
The number of proposed carbon regulations in the U.S. has Enhanced or increased emissions-reporting obligations could We recognize that there is a need for sustainable construction
grown significantly recently. The SEC has called for public increase our operating costs necessary to meet requirements. materials to build environmentally friendly and resilient
comment on regulated climate change disclosures as well. Mandatory climate change disclosures could incur additional infrastructure across the globe. We will continue to explore
costs needed to perform the increased data collection and ways to expand our product portfolio to include more
Time Horizon: Short-term
assurance. sustainably sourced materials and technologies. This not only
has the potential to increase our revenues, but it also reduces
Mandates on and regulation of existing products and
our climate-related market risks.
services could impact our value chain, business operations,
competitive position, assets, labor pool and business We are also working to improve the energy efficiency of
partners. our operations and increase the amount of energy sourced
from renewables and alternative energy generation. This will
reduce our exposure to fluctuating energy costs and make our
operating costs more stable.
You can read more about our sustainable and low carbon
products in the Our Products section of our 2021 ESG Report.
You can read more about our energy efficiency initiatives in the
in the Energy & Greenhouse Gas Emissions section of our 2021
ESG Report.
Reputation
Investors, customers, consumers and other stakeholders are Failure to not meet the growing expectations of our investors We will continue to report on our progress, success, metrics
increasingly expecting companies to evaluate and develop and customers for climate change strategies and disclosures and innovation around climate-related risks and opportunities
strategies for climate related risks and opportunities. Failure could result in reduced investment, capital and revenues for to maintain confidence from our shareholders, customers,
to act on these risks and opportunities in a significant and our business. employees and other stakeholders. This information will
DATA
palpable way could negatively impact the reputations of be readily available in our annual ESG Report and TCFD
INDEX Our employees are becoming increasingly aware of and
business. disclosure, as well as on our ESG website.
interested in ESG and climate-related issues. Failure to attract
Time Horizon: Short to long-term and retain talent, especially younger talent, as the workforce
continues to grow could threaten our ability to execute and
achieve key ESG and financial objectives.
Vulcan Materials Company 2021 ESG Report 58
Climate Related Opportunities
HOME
Description Potential Impact Mitigation Strategy
Resource Efficiency
By improving the resource efficiency of operations to mitigate Through recognizing resource efficiency gains, we could Improving the efficiency of our production and distribution
climate-related risks, organizations have an opportunity reduce our operating costs, increase the value of our processes is imperative. We are constantly searching for new
to reduce their operating costs as well. More efficient fixed assets, increase energy cost savings, possibly reduce energy and resource efficiencies in our operations. Not only do
production and distribution processes, reduced water usage spending on raw materials when reusing or recycling these opportunities reduce our environmental footprint, but
and consumption and increased use of recycling all have products and reduce water input costs. they lower our operating costs as well.
economic benefits to businesses.
More efficient production processes can lead to workforce You can read more about our energy efficiency initiatives in the
Time Horizon: Short to long-term management benefits, such as improved health safety and Energy & Greenhouse Gas Emissions section of our 2021 ESG
employee satisfaction. This could result in better talent Report.
attraction and retention for our business.
Energy Source
The transition to using more lower-emission sources of By using lower emission sources of energy and increasing Finding opportunities to source our energy needs from
energy has numerous benefits for an organization. By the mix of renewables and other low carbon energy sources low emissions and renewable sources has been a priority
consuming more energy from renewable and alternative in our energy consumption as a business, we have the for Vulcan for decades. We are continuing to identify and
sources, businesses can often lower their operating costs opportunity to reduce our energy costs as renewable energy implement opportunities to diversify our energy usage in ways
while reducing their exposure to fossil fuel price fluctuations. costs drop. that reduce our costs.
They also can reduce their exposure to regulations or a
By reducing our exposure to carbon energy sources, we have You can read more about our energy efficiency initiatives in the
carbon tax that limits GHG emissions.
the opportunity to reduce our exposure to fossil fuel price Energy & Greenhouse Gas Emissions section of our 2021 ESG
Time Horizon: Medium to long-term increases. Report.
It will also open up the opportunity for the capital available to
Vulcan to increase as more investors favor companies that are
lowering energy usage emissions.
DATA
INDEX
Vulcan Materials Company 2021 ESG Report 59
Description Potential Impact Mitigation Strategy
HOME
Products and Services
As the world shifts to a lower carbon economy, consumer Maintaining our ability to develop products that meet We work closely with our customers to ensure that our
preference for lower emissions goods and services will our customers preferences and needs will continue our products align with their needs and goals. This applies to
likely increase. Companies that develop or expand their competitive advantage during the low carbon transition. climate and other environmental goals as well. For example, we
offerings of low emission goods and services, or develop were one of the early adopters of CarbonCure technologies,
Developing more lower emission products and services will
climate adaptation and insurance risk solutions, may have a which injects captured carbon dioxide permanently into
also diversify our business activities resulting in increased
competitive advantage over those that do not. concrete. We did this to meet the growing demand and
revenues.
preference in our East Coast markets for lower carbon concrete
Time Horizon: Short to long-term
solutions. We will continue to identify ways to align our
products and services with the low carbon transition in a way
that supports our customers and infrastructure worldwide.
You can read more about our sustainable and low carbon
products in the Our Products section of our 2021 ESG Report.
Markets
As the global economy shifts towards the lower carbon Access into new markets that emerge during the low carbon We continue to monitor new potential markets and financial
economy, new markets and revenues systems will open up for transition would provide new financial opportunities through opportunities for Vulcan. One such opportunity for expanding
companies. partnerships with, for example, governments, development our products into new markets is the Infrastructure Investment
banks, entrepreneurs, community groups and other and Jobs Act, passed in late 2021. This Bill provides
Time Horizon: Medium to long-term
organizations. opportunities to modernize our country’s infrastructure, which
improving our nation’s sustainability and climate resilience.
Increased diversification of financial assets (e.g., green bonds
Vulcan is uniquely positioned to take advantage of these
and infrastructure) would broaden our market reach and
opportunities.
increase revenue as well.
Resilience
DATA Climate resilience is the adaptive capacity of an organization Through actively increasing our resiliency to climate related We are actively working to identify and prepare for climate-
INDEX to respond to the changes, risks and opportunities from risks, Vulcan can increase the reliability of its business related risks in order to ensure our business continuity. This
climate change. By proactively mitigating climate related risks operations. This will be highly beneficial as physical and TCFD report is just the first step in analyzing climate risks to our
and pursuing climate related opportunities, organizations can transitional climate risks increase. business, disclosing on them and developing plans to address
improve their competitive position. them.
By reducing climate-related impacts compared to our peers,
Time Horizon: Medium to long-term Vulcan should see an increase in market valuation through Vulcan products are inherently climate-resiliency products.
resiliency planning, reliability of supply chain and ability to Our construction materials are used to build infrastructure
operate under various conditions. nation-wide, linking us to the resiliency of communities. We will
continue to focus our research and development on making
We could also increase our revenues through offering
products that are sustainable and resilient to the physical risks
products and services related to climate resiliency.
of climate change.
Vulcan Materials Company 2021 ESG Report 60
HOME
CLIMATE RESILIENCE AND SCENARIO ANALYSIS Our risk management committee reports to the We commit to publicly reporting on our progress
Vulcan Board of Directors and meets on a regular against these goals annually in our future ESG and
The Climate-Related Risks and Climate-Related
basis to discuss and evaluate enterprise risks facing TCFD reports. This will allow investors and other
Opportunities sections above highlight the initial
the company. This committee is led by senior stakeholders to assess our progress in adapting to
findings from our early, qualitative scenario planning.
corporate officers and draws on subject matter experts climate-related issues.
This includes identifying which risks and opportunities
across functional departments and line operations
will impact Vulcan over varying time horizons and
We also report annually on our 2021 Scope 1 and
management. The committee is responsible for
the early phases of how we plan to respond to them.
2 emissions, which can be found in the Energy &
developing mitigation plans in response to identified
As we evolve, our scenario planning and risks and
Greenhouse Gas Emissions section of our ESG Report.
risks and monitoring the implementation of such plans.
opportunities will evolve along with us. We will
This includes plans to mitigate climate-related risks.
continuously re-evaluate the risks to our business in Conclusion
order to clearly identify where our strategies may be Vulcan understands the importance and urgency of
Metrics and Targets
most affected by climate change. We will also strategize identifying, monitoring, and mitigating climate-related
At Vulcan, we are committed to setting meaningful
how we can best address the impacts of potential risks risks to our business. Risks and opportunities from
goals that will support our assessment of climate-related
and opportunities of climate-related issues on our climate change can impact our business continuity, as
risks and opportunities in line with our strategy and
financial performance and position. well as our future and financial performance. We are
risk management process. In 2022, we set measurable
committed to mitigating those risks through our ESG
We recognize that scenario analysis is an important goals related to climate change management across
strategy. Vulcan will continue to focus on providing
step in determining how resilient our strategies are our entire organization. These goals focus on our
high-quality, sustainable products for our customers
to climate-related risks and opportunities. As our ESG GHG emissions intensity, energy intensity and energy
and the communities they serve.
and climate change strategies evolve, we will prioritize sources.
conducting 2 degrees Celsius or lower scenario Please visit our Corporate Social Responsibility website
Our Goals:
analyses to align with TCFD recommendations. and our 2021 ESG Report to learn more.
• Reduce GHG emissions intensity per ton of
Risk Management
product for Scope 1 and 2 by 10% by 2030
Risk management is critical to Vulcan’s success and
DATA
our ability to deliver reliable, high-quality products • Energy Intensity: Reduce energy intensity per ton
INDEX
to our customers. We also recognize its importance of project produced by 6.7% by 2030.
in mitigating the impacts of climate change on our
• Energy Sources: Secure 5% of all energy from
business. We are currently incorporating climate-related
renewable sources by 2030.
risks into our enterprise risk management system. This
system is used to identify, rank, prioritize and assign
management of risks so that they can be effectively
eliminated, transferred or controlled.
Vulcan Materials Company 2021 ESG Report 61
