SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT 2023
Table of Contents
PAGE PAGE
03 31
CEO Letter Pillar 2: Climate Risk Management
Risk Assessment & Modeling..............................................................33
Climate Change
PAGE Risks & Opportunities ...............................................................................36
04
Climate Change Risk
About W. R. Berkley Corporation Management & Mitigation ..................................................................43
PAGE PAGE
11 48
Our Sustainability Strategy Pillar 3: Responsibility & Transparency
Environmental, Social, & Governance (“ESG”) Ethics & Compliance ...............................................................................49
Framework & Three-Pillar Approach ..............................................12
Cybersecurity................................................................................................53
Governance & How We Operate .......................................................13
Responsible Investing .............................................................................57
PAGE PAGE
14 62
Pillar 1: Human Capital & Community Appendices
Human Capital Management TCFD Index .......................................................................................................63
& Governance ...............................................................................................15
SASB Metrics ..................................................................................................64
Diversity, Inclusion,
UN SDG Priority Mapping .......................................................................65
& Belonging .....................................................................................................16
Employee Well-Being ...............................................................................19
Community Impact ..................................................................................25
Berkley 2023 Sustainability Report 2
CEO Letter
of our specialty Businesses and our decentralized
structure to manage the risks and opportunities climate
change presents to our Company. The global imperative
to address climate change has taken center stage in
the public discourse and regulatory initiatives as natural
catastrophes have continued to become both more
frequent and more severe. We believe that cooperation
between the public and private sectors is critical to
facilitating an orderly and well-managed transition to
cleaner, more sustainable energy, and that the property
and casualty insurance industry has a vital role to play
W. Robert Berkley, Jr.
by supporting policyholders.
President &
Beyond climate risk, we focus on the Human Capital
Chief Executive Officer
and Community pillar of our ESG framework as we
W. R. Berkley Corporation has created value for its further invest in talent management and development,
shareholders by focusing on long-term risk-adjusted enhance our culture of inclusivity, and continue to give
return for over 55 years. Since its founding, our back to the communities we serve. In 2022, we launched
enterprise has embraced the principle of doing the a comprehensive curriculum of structured learning
right thing. We recognize the inherent link between programs that provide current and future leaders
serving the needs of our shareholders, employees, with the skills they will likely need to drive innovative
customers, distribution partners, and communities business strategy and inspire their teams to exceed
and creating shareholder value. Adhering to this expectations. Our Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging
principle engenders trust and confidence, enabling (“DIB”) efforts focused on “inclusion” as a theme, through
us to grow our business while delivering the best understanding from our employees what “inclusion”
insurance solutions possible. means to them and educating our teams on how to
create a more inclusive workplace. We continued our
In recent years, we have formalized our environmental, long-standing tradition of community involvement,
social, and governance (”ESG”) framework with focusing time and resources on supporting the next
identifiable pillars and governance structures that generation, combating food insecurity, and protecting
highlight the underpinnings of our operations that the environment.
have been important components of our success since
the beginning. In 2022, we focused on implementing In support of the third pillar of our ESG framework,
our ESG framework while maintaining the alignment of Responsibility & Transparency, we maintain our strong
our ESG reporting with guidelines promulgated by the emphasis on ethics and compliance, data privacy
Task Force for Climate-Related Financial Disclosures and cybersecurity, and responsible investing. We
(”TCFD”) and the Sustainability Accounting Standards continued to invest in our sustainable bond portfolio
Board (”SASB”). in 2022, while exploring ways to further consider ESG
matters in analyzing our existing portfolio as well as
Our focus on the Climate Risk Management pillar new investments. As reporting requirements in various
of our ESG framework included performing a regulatory jurisdictions evolve, we are focusing on
qualitative climate change risk assessment focused preparedness and remain optimistic that regulators will
on underwriting, investments, operational risk, be mindful of balancing resources between compliance
and developing regulation. We also introduced a and more impactful activities.
pilot methodology for a quantitative underwriting
climate change scenario analysis to gain a better We work hard every year to make our business stronger,
understanding of how certain underwriting risks more agile, and more resilient as we manage our day-
identified in the qualitative risk assessment may to-day business and plan for the future. Creating value
manifest and affect the business under various for our shareholders and delivering strong long-term
climate change scenarios. We continue to evaluate risk-adjusted returns remain our top priorities. We hope
the applicability of this pilot methodology, and to you enjoy learning more about what makes W. R. Berkley
consider whether it is fit for our purposes. Corporation a trusted partner.
As we assist our clients in confronting the physical
impacts of climate change through our products
and services, we continue to leverage the expertise
Berkley 2023 Sustainability Report 3
ABOUT W. R. BERKLEY
CORPORATION
Berkley 2023 Sustainability Report 4
ABOUT W. R. BERKLEY CORPORATION
Insurance
Our Insurance Businesses underwrite
predominantly commercial insurance,
including excess and surplus lines,
admitted lines, and specialty personal lines
in the United States, the United Kingdom,
Continental Europe, South America, Canada,
Mexico, Scandinavia, Asia, and Australia.
Reinsurance & Monoline Excess
Our Reinsurance Businesses provide
facultative and treaty reinsurance,
primarily in the United States, the United
Kingdom, Continental Europe, Australia,
the Asia-Pacific Region, and South
W. R. Berkley Corporation (the “Company”) is an
Africa. Monoline Excess businesses
insurance holding company founded as a small
retain risk solely on an excess basis.
investment management firm by its Executive Chairman
William R. Berkley in 1967. It is among the largest
commercial lines writers in the United States and
operates worldwide through more than 55 insurance
Businesses (collectively, “Businesses,” and individually,
Percentage (%) of 2022 net premiums
“Business”), each focusing on a niche market that
requires specialized knowledge about specific products, written by each business segment:
industries, or territories. Throughout this report, “Berkley,”
“we,” “us,” and “our” are used to refer collectively to 12.2%
the Company and its Businesses. With more than 8,100
employees, we operate in two segments of the property
and casualty insurance business: 1) Insurance and 2)
Reinsurance & Monoline Excess.
Our specialized knowledge and customer-centric focus
set us apart from others in our industry. Our culture
promotes integrity, embraces our commitment to “always
do right,” fosters entrepreneurship and innovation, and
places a high value on making thoughtful decisions with
a long-term view. For more information about Berkley,
please visit berkley.com.
87.8%
Insurance Reinsurance &
Monoline Excess
Berkley 2023 Sustainability Report 5
ABOUT W. R. BERKLEY CORPORATION
Helping Clients with Risk Management
As a property and casualty insurance provider, we focus
on helping clients manage risk. Our risk management and
assessment processes may include considerations of
environmental, social, and governance (“ESG”) risks along
with other traditional and emerging risks. We draw on our
risk management expertise to support our Businesses,
employees, and clients through the following actions:
• Informing our underwriting, investment, and
operational decisions
• Using established internal policies and practices to
support our employees
• Helping policyholders address risk through our
products and services
• Helping policyholders reduce their losses from events
related to climate change through education about
prevention measures
Elements of Corporate Culture
Our corporate culture drives our success. W. R. Berkley Corporation’s Board of Directors (“Board”) has recognized five
elements of our corporate culture that are essential to our long-term success:
These elements unify our
employees around the world
and position us to continually
Risk-Adjusted Accountability People-Oriented
innovate and evolve in a way that
Returns Strategies
will best serve our diverse clients.
There is no one “Berkley way,”
yet each of our Businesses has a
distinctive culture that embodies
our shared values.
Responsible Financial Transparency
Practices
Berkley 2023 Sustainability Report 6
ABOUT W. R. BERKLEY CORPORATION
Resilient & Accountable Structure
and incentives to local management and enables us to
attract and retain professionals of the highest caliber.
Our decentralized operating structure is part of our long-
term strategy to enable our Businesses to identify and Berkley Businesses
respond quickly and effectively to changing market
Berkley has more than 55 Businesses, each with deep
conditions and local customer needs. This structure also
expertise in specific products, industries, or territories. For
allows us to focus on issues particular to one Business
questions about our Businesses and their product offerings,
without affecting the larger enterprise. In addition, our
please email us at findyourberkley@wrberkley.com.
decentralized structure provides financial accountability
Segment Key
Industry Specialty: Provides coverages to customers within Regional United States: Provides standard insurance products
a particular industry that are best served by underwriters and services focused on meeting the specific needs of a
and claims professionals with specialized knowledge of geographically differentiated customer base
that industry
Reinsurance: Provides other insurance companies and self-
Product Specialty: Provides specific lines of insurance insureds with assistance in managing their net risk through
coverage reinsurance, either on a portfolio basis through treaty reinsurance or
on an individual basis through facultative reinsurance
Excess & Surplus (“E&S”): Offers coverages to businesses
with complex risk or unique exposures that typically International: Provides products and services tailored to each
fall outside the underwriting guidelines of the standard regional customer base through teams of professionals with
insurance market expertise in local markets and knowledge of regional environments
Learn more about each Berkley Business by clicking on the logos in the table below:
Berkley Agribusiness
Berkley Life Sciences
Risk Specialists
Berkley Alliance
Berkley Luxury Group
Managers
Berkley Asset Berkley Offshore
Protection Underwriting Managers
Berkley Construction
Berkley Oil & Gas
Solutions
Berkley Entertainment Berkley One
Berkley Program
Berkley Environmental
Specialists
Berkley Financial
Berkley Public Entity
Specialists
Berkley Healthcare Berkley Risk
Berkley Human Berkley Small
Services Business Solutions
Berkley 2023 Sustainability Report 7
ABOUT W. R. BERKLEY CORPORATION
Segment Key
Industry Specialty Excess & Surplus (“E&S”) Reinsurance
Product Specialty Regional United States International
Berkley Technology Midwest Employers
Underwriters Casualty
Preferred Employers
Carolina Casualty
Insurance
Gemini Transportation Acadia Insurance
Berkley Mid-Atlantic
Intrepid Direct
Insurance Group
Berkley Accident & Health Berkley North Pacific
Berkley Cyber
Berkley Southeast
Risk Solutions
Berkley Enterprise
Continental Western Group
Risk Solutions
Berkley Fire & Marine
Union Standard
Underwriters
Berkley Industrial Comp Admiral Insurance
Berkley Management
Berkley Aspire
Protection
Berkley Net
Berkley Custom Insurance
Underwriters
Berkley Product
Berkley E&S Solutions
Protection
Berkley Professional
Berkley Specialty Excess
Liability
Berkley Select Nautilus Insurance Group
Berkley Surety Vela Insurance Services
Key Risk Verus Specialty Insurance
Berkley 2023 Sustainability Report 8
ABOUT W. R. BERKLEY CORPORATION
Segment Key
Industry Specialty Excess & Surplus (“E&S”) Reinsurance
Product Specialty Regional United States International
Berkley Re America Berkley Europe
Berkley Re Asia Pacific Berkley Insurance Asia
Berkley Re Solutions Berkley Insurance Australia
Berkley Re EMEA Berkley Latinoamérica
Berkley Canada W/R/B Underwriting
Berkley 2023 Sustainability Report 9
ABOUT W. R. BERKLEY CORPORATION
Sustainability at Berkley Berkley Company Values
Doing the right thing for our people, our communities,
and the environment earns the trust of our policyholders, Berkley is a company of people who serve people.
distribution partners, employees, and shareholders, Our decentralized structure empowers individuals to
enabling us to grow our business profitably and meet the make unique contributions to our long-term success
diverse needs of our stakeholders. The simple concept of while uniting them through a common set of values:
“doing the right thing” embodies the principles that guide
the way we do business. It is embedded in our culture and
exemplified by our employees each and every day.
Our four guiding principles—“Everything Counts,
Everyone Matters®,” “Always Do Right,” “Act Responsibly,”
Integrity Responsibility
and “Embrace Innovation”—serve as the cornerstone
of our success and our Company values. Every day,
our Businesses are guided by these principles and
values in the way they conduct their work, engage with
team members, and give back to their communities.
They add sustainability and resilience to our Company
while also contributing to the broader society. Whether
Strategic Mindset Knowledge
employing individuals with diverse backgrounds and
demographics, giving back to the communities in
which we live and work, or managing our impact on the
environment and working with our policyholders to help
them manage their environmental impact, our principles
have been embedded in our culture from the founding
of our Company.
Trust Caring
Recognition
MSCI ESG Ratings Sustainalytics Fortune 500 Ward’s 50
1.4 C Aligned ESG Rating: Medium
20% by 2020 Forbes Global 2000: FTSE4Good Index Series S&P 500 ESG Index
Women on Boards World’s Largest Public
Companies
Berkley 2023 Sustainability Report 10
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
STRATEGY
Berkley 2023 Sustainability Report 11
OUR SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY
Environmental, Social, & Governance (“ESG”) Framework & Three-Pillar Approach
Our ESG framework delivers trust to our stakeholders1 by investing in human capital and communities, incorporating
climate risk into our business decisions, and holding ourselves accountable through responsible management and
transparent practices.
Human Capital & Climate Risk Responsibility &
Community Management Transparency
Invest in our employees, Integrate the risks of Maintain trust with
customers, and communities climate change into stakeholders through strong
to drive the long-term business decisions ethics and accountability
sustainability of our business
Human Capital Development Investments & Underwriting Ethics & Compliance
Community Impact Operations Cybersecurity
Responsible Investing
Operating Model
Governance
Berkley has engaged in practices that support ESG since invest in our employees to support their professional
its founding. Our ESG framework, built on these practices, growth and to meet the needs of our customers with
incorporates guidance from the Sustainability Accounting world-class expertise and service. We endeavor to
Standards Board (“SASB”) and the Task Force on Climate- have a positive impact on our communities, which
related Financial Disclosures (“TCFD”), as well as our supports the long-term sustainability of our business.
assessment of ESG best practices within the property and
casualty insurance industry. In evaluating these resources, • Climate Risk Management: Climate change and the
we believe that the most meaningful ESG issues for environmental issues it encompasses are significant
Berkley involve our people and how we interact with the drivers of industry and global change. This pillar focuses
community; the environment and the impact of climate on our efforts to integrate the risks of climate change
risk on our business; and our desire to uphold trust with into business decisions, including our investments,
our stakeholders through transparency and responsible underwriting, product offerings, and operations.
business practices. This analysis helped us to identify the
• Responsibility & Transparency: Key factors in our
three pillars of our ESG program, which are supported by
success include our consideration of the interests of
our operating model and governance structure:
our stakeholders—an ongoing focus throughout our
• Human Capital & Community: Berkley’s greatest history—and our intention to maintain trust with our
asset is our people. Through this pillar, we undertake to stakeholders through our ethics and accountability.
1 The term “stakeholder” is amorphous, meaning different things to different people with its meaning further adapting to the context in which it is used.
As used in this report, the term “stakeholder” broadly refers to any party with an interest in our operations, provided, however, such use of the term
stakeholder does not imply and does not create any legal, equitable, contractual or fiduciary right vis-à-vis any such interested party, which right does
not already independently exist.
Berkley 2023 Sustainability Report 12
OUR SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY
are responsible for examining existing and potential
risks as they arise in their various operational areas.
The Berkley Model
Senior officers share this information among themselves
and with our Enterprise Risk Management (“ERM”)
Our decentralized structure is
department. Our Company’s Senior Vice President -
fundamental to our operating
Enterprise Risk Management reports on areas of material
strategy. Each Business operates
risk to Berkley, including those related to climate
within a niche market based on
change. These reports are regularly provided to our ERM
product, industry, or territory, and is
management committee, our Companyʼs President and
empowered to explore what makes
CEO, and the Board.
sense for its specialized market and employees
within our framework. This flexibility allows us
to maximize our ability to respond to changing
markets and meet employee and customer needs. How It Works
Managing ESG within our organization necessitates cross- Berkley
functional support and coordination. Internal leaders and Business
internal stakeholders collaborated in establishing this
framework to ensure voices were heard and important
i is ns 2u 0e 2s
2
w ae nr de cc oo nn ts ii nd ue ere
s
d to. O bu er rE eS fiG
n
efr da m wie thw eo vrk
o
lw via ns
g
f o inr dm ua stli rz ye d BB ue sr ik nl ee sy
s
W.
R.
Berkley Corporati
o
n
practices and emerging issues.
ESG Reporting &
Enterprise-Level Disclosure
Governance & How We Operate
ESG Team
ESG Operating Model Berkley
Business
Our ESG framework supports our efforts to remain Collaboration of Business-level
strategy and program environmental, social,
flexible in the face of shifting global markets and risks. It implementation and governance data
leverages the decentralized organizational structure that
is key to our success, enabling us to both universalize Berkley
Business
initiatives and tailor programs to our various Businesses.
In 2022, we began developing the framework into an ESG
operating model in which a multidisciplinary ESG team
leads, manages, coordinates, and supports ESG efforts
from an enterprise level, as overseen by the Board.
Board Oversight of ESG
This team specifically leads strategy, program
The Board believes that oversight of risk, including
implementation, and ESG reporting and disclosure. As
ESG risks, is one of its key responsibilities. Our Board
we have many distinct Businesses around the world,
and its committees receive periodic updates from
the ESG team also provides support for the diverse
management on risks, including those related to climate
Businesses collecting and reporting data and empowers
change, cybersecurity, human capital management
them to understand and act on the insights gained from
(“HCM”), and overall ESG matters. Our ESG Management
our ESG program architecture and reporting function.
Committee is composed of Berkley’s President and CEO
The flexibility of our Businesses remains an integral
and other senior executives. The Committee meets at
component of our operating philosophy, and this model
least quarterly and shares information with the Board
allows our initiatives to follow a common framework that
regarding ESG practices and stakeholder interests. The
can be implemented at a local level.
Board, through the ESG Management Committee, guides
our ESG disclosures, including the production of both our
Moreover, we believe the continued evaluation and
Sustainability Report and the ESG summary included in
consideration of enterprise risk includes the examination
our annual proxy statement.
of ESG-related risks and opportunities. Our senior officers
Berkley 2023 Sustainability Report 13
PILLAR 1
HUMAN CAPITAL
& COMMUNITY
PILLAR-SPECIFIC SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (“SDGS”):1
1 The Sustainable Development Goals, or Global Goals, are a collection of 17 interlinked objectives designed to serve as a “shared blueprint for peace and
prosperity for people and the planet, now and into the future” formulated by the United Nations General Assembly.
Berkley 2023 Sustainability Report 14
PILLAR 1: HUMAN CAPITAL & COMMUNITY
People—including our employees, customers, and community members—are a key part of our Company’s success. As
described in this section, we support employee development through bespoke Diversity, Inclusion, & Belonging (“DIB”)
initiatives, comprehensive benefits, and wide-ranging learning and career development opportunities. We also offer
products and services that support businesses on the forefront of several important ESG issues, and we continue our
long-standing tradition of community involvement to support people in the communities where we live and work. We
trademarked the phrase “Everything Counts, Everyone Matters®” more than 15 years ago, and we exemplify this belief in our
everyday practices. Our decentralized operations allow each Business to develop its own specific culture that incorporates
our core values.
Human Capital Management
compensation for our most senior executive officers
& Governance
through the long-term value creation component of our
incentive compensation program.
Berkley’s corporate culture is our most important
intangible driver of long-term value creation. HCM, The Board periodically engages with our senior
which includes recruiting, managing, and developing leadership team, including the Senior Vice President –
our employees, is therefore a priority in our efforts to Human Resources, on HCM issues such as succession
pursue long-term, risk-adjusted returns and growth in planning and development, compensation, benefits,
shareholder value. HCM and culture are considered in talent recruiting and retention, engagement, employee
feedback, and DIB.
Berkley 2023 Sustainability Report 15
PILLAR 1: HUMAN CAPITAL & COMMUNITY
Diversity, Inclusion, & Belonging
DIB is a priority at Berkley. It is important to In 2022, Berkley celebrated several identity and
us that diverse voices are represented in heritage months. These efforts included the following:
both decision-making and implementation; that our
• Creating and releasing a flipbook during Pride
community is welcoming to all individuals regardless of
Month to amplify the voices of Berkley people who
identity; and that our employees feel accepted, valued,
identify as part of the LGBTQ+ community
and safe. We continue to strengthen our DIB efforts and
build upon the work being done by our Businesses in
• Hosting a webinar focused on Black artists as
this area through our corporate DIB Committee. The
part of an art community webinar series for Black
Committee helps drive continued participation at all
History Month
levels within our Company and provides a framework
that each Berkley Business can adapt to support this • During Hispanic History Month, broadcasting
focus area. an interview on LinkedIn with a Berkley Business
leader in the community
• Creating and releasing a Women’s History Month
Berkley DIB Framework flipbook with interviews describing the career
paths of many women leaders across Berkley
DIVERSITY at Berkley means that each
individual is unique and valued.
of learning resources on this topic and giving a voice
to our employees, we aim to create a more aware
and empowered workforce with a greater focus on
INCLUSION at Berkley means we all work
improving our performance, increasing our sensitivity,
together to create a safe and supportive
and strengthening our culture. We remain focused on
environment where all individuals are
the importance of diversity in our Businesses and look
treated fairly and respectfully, are
to all employees to support our culture of inclusivity and
encouraged to share ideas and opinions,
belonging.
and feel comfortable doing so.
Because Berkley comprises more than 55 Businesses in
addition to our corporate and other service groups, many
BELONGING at Berkley is how
of our initiatives are based on a common framework that
individuals feel when they are included,
may also be implemented at a local level.
valued, and recognized.
Depending on regulations applicable to the geographical
locations of each of our Businesses, we collect and
analyze demographic data where employees provide
We actively engage and solicit employee feedback to it voluntarily. In the U.S., our racial diversity is consistent
improve our DIB efforts. In 2022, Berkley focused internal with the Insurance Carriers and Related Activities industry
DIB efforts around “inclusion” as a theme, understanding statistics provided by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics.2
from our employees what “inclusion” means to them Through various recruiting strategies, we continue to be
and educating our teams on how to create a more mindful of our diversity. In 2022, we grew our workforce
inclusive workplace. Past employee engagement by 6.6% as revenue advanced by 16.9%. During the year,
surveys revealed high marks for our existing DIB policies, Berkley employed people in 18 countries outside of
culture, and activities. These programs include diversity the U.S., including Asia, Australia, Canada, Continental
training, educational materials in our online learning Europe, Mexico, South America, and the United Kingdom.
system, a forum to share information, and live events to Berkley also continues to explore opportunities to expand
discuss DIB topics in depth. By increasing the availability the collection of employee diversity data across our
Businesses all over the world.
2 “Labor Force Statistics from the Current Population Survey,” U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, updated January 25, 2023, https://www.bls.gov/cps/
cpsaat18.htm.
Berkley 2023 Sustainability Report 16
PILLAR 1: HUMAN CAPITAL & COMMUNITY
2022 Global (Re)Insurance Employee 2022 Global (Re)Insurance Employee
Age Group Breakout Gender Breakout
0.2%
12.2% 13.6%
22.1% 48.5% 51.3%
26.7%
25.4%
30 & Under Female
31 - 40 Male
41 - 50 Not Declared
51 - 60
Grand Total:
61 & Over
7,055 Employees
Grand Total:
7,055 Employees
2022 Race/Ethnicity Breakout 2022 Board Gender & Ethnicity Breakout
(U.S. Only)
30%
20%
23.3%
20%
76.7%
Total Diversity
Racial & Ethnic Diversity
White Gender Diversity
People of Color
Grand Total:
5,919 Employees
Berkley 2023 Sustainability Report 1177
PILLAR 1: HUMAN CAPITAL & COMMUNITY
Crucial Conversations
As a people-focused company, Berkley understands
that challenging conversations are an inevitable
part of both work and home life. To help build
strong working relationships and drive successful
business outcomes, Berkley developed the
Crucial Conversations training program as part
Empowering Berkley Businesses to Promote of a consistent, sustainable model for building
& Support DIB manager capability to conduct these challenging
conversations. This program is carried out with the
Berkley Businesses are unified in their appreciation for intention of encouraging empathy, listening, and
diversity and in the understanding that diversity makes understanding in difficult situations, taking care to
Berkley stronger and more resilient. Our Businesses treat each other with respect and work together
seek to regularly communicate with employees and the intentionally to a positive outcome.
communities in which they operate on issues related
to race and ethnic heritage empowerment, as well as Crucial Conversations is built from award-winning
the empowerment of and appreciation for all genders, learning content based on more than 10,000 hours
sexual identities, and persons with varying abilities. of research and used by the majority of Fortune 500
companies. Employees form cohorts of 24 and learn
Berkley has held virtual events for employees to together both in person and virtually from a certified
discuss various DIB issues and to share their own life instructor through multimodal interactive learning,
experiences. For example, Berkley’s DIB Committee which includes video, skills practice, feedback, and
shared a virtual conversation on enhancing company coaching.
culture through DIB with leaders of Admiral Insurance
Group. The event focused on key topics such as progress To expand this program in 2022, Berkley conducted
made toward improving DIB and how diversity can a “train the trainer” session through which many HR
have a positive impact on both individuals and the professionals across the Company became Certified
organization. Trainers of Crucial Conversations.
Berkley 2023 Sustainability Report 18
PILLAR 1: HUMAN CAPITAL & COMMUNITY
Employee Well-Being Employee Benefits
We value the continued growth and experience of Berkley currently offers employees
every single employee and seek to maintain strong a comprehensive benefits package,
employee retention. Many team members stay with our including health and wellness options and financial,
Company until their retirement. Berkley’s U.S. turnover educational, and life management benefits. Benefits
rates over the past three years have consistently been are geographically tailored based on customs and
below the annual total separation rates for the finance regulations in the countries where our employees are
and insurance industry, as provided by the U.S. Bureau located. For example, in the United States:
of Labor Statistics.3 We achieve this in part through
our multifaceted approach to employee well-being.
Additionally, our structure helps us attract and retain Berkley’s Paid Parental Leave Program
professionals of the highest caliber who are drawn to our provides six weeks of fully paid leave for
prized “entrepreneurial” environment. childbirth recovery and an additional
six weeks of bonding care and family
Financial Well-Being & Empowerment
adjustment time for the primary caretaker
Each Berkley Business seeks to compensate parent, whether that be the mother or
employees competitively for its marketplace at another parent, including adoptive parents.
all levels, commensurate with performance and
consistent with independent salary surveys. Financial Employee and dependent care flexible
incentives for employees are designed to be aligned spending accounts (“FSAs”) are available
with our risk and performance framework. This approach for eligible employees.
provides employees an opportunity to share in our overall
growth and success.
The Employee Assistance Program offers
Berkley has established a profit-sharing plan for the each employee three free mental health
benefit of all full-time U.S. employees. Each year, Berkley support sessions per year, providing 24/7
makes an employer profit-sharing contribution to the access to assistance for mental health
plan. The current minimum employer contribution for and well-being, substance abuse, daily
each plan year is 5% of a participant’s eligible base stress, parenting, work situations, troubled
compensation for the period of the calendar year that the relationships, and other issues. Additional
employee was a participant, up to the maximum amount mental health treatment is covered
permitted by law. through the healthcare plan offered to
U.S.-based employees.
Medical Care Benefits Participation1
In addition to emotional and work-life
counseling, the Employee Assistance
Number of U.S. employees Number of U.S. employees Program offers financial information and
eligible for health plan: covered by our dental insurance:
resources, legal support and resources,
5,826 5,016
and health and benefit services.
Number of U.S. employees Number of U.S. employees Our Wellness Program offers rewards
covered by our health insurance: covered by our vision insurance: and discounts for completing wellness
4,934 4,519 activities, such as getting an annual
physical. Employees are not required
to be enrolled in our medical plan to
1 The difference between eligible employees and covered employees participate in the Wellness Program.
is due to an employee being covered by another medical plan (i.e., a
partner’s or a spouse’s).
3 Sum of annual monthly separations rates for finance and insurance industry, not seasonally adjusted, from "One-Screen Data Search: Job Openings
and Labor Turnover Survey," U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, https://data.bls.gov/PDQWeb/jt.
Berkley 2023 Sustainability Report 19
PILLAR 1: HUMAN CAPITAL & COMMUNITY
Training & Education
Types of employee training include the following:
Technical Insurance
Training Licensing
Training
Professional Management
Continuing Development
Education
Employee Development
To provide challenging career paths for our employees,
we have a robust set of formal and informal programs
to help employees build specialized skills and pursue
Leadership Training DIB Training
leadership opportunities.
Berkley uses a company-wide learning
management system to increase individual
development throughout our enterprise.
Employees can access these opportunities via
the content library in Berkley Learning University. Our
Businesses leverage this platform to view and track
employee assignments and their progress toward Innovation Training
development goals.
Berkley 2023 Sustainability Report 20
PILLAR 1: HUMAN CAPITAL & COMMUNITY
With more than 11,700 learning programs available,
Berkley Businesses can leverage e-learning, video, Berkley Leadership Insights
e-books and articles, and virtual classroom events to
create bespoke offerings suited to each employee’s
In 2022, Berkley introduced a speaker series featuring
specific development journey as well as structured
some of our most successful leaders. Every employee
certification paths for consistent learning of key technical
has the opportunity to attend virtual speaking events
and professional skills required at each career stage.
to hear the selected speaker of the quarter share
experiences and lessons to help each of us become
Through Berkley Learning University, managers and
better leaders in our daily work.
individual employees can navigate content to establish
longer-term development plans or identify just-in-time
Our first speaker in the series was John Goldwater,
learning for immediate impact. In addition, they have a
Executive Vice President of W. R. Berkley Corporation.
one-stop location to access Berkley’s Innovation Learning
The former President of Berkley Net Underwriters,
Center (“I-Lab”), an online curriculum and resource library
John created one of the first commercial insurance
that launched in 2020.
internet applications. He has been at the forefront
of our Businesses’ use of new insurance internet
technologies. In his presentation, John shared
challenging situations he faced early in his journey
2022 Learning Metrics that shaped the trajectory of his career.
Total number of learning actions:1
147,570
Average number of learning actions per employee:
22.8
Average learning time per employee:
11 20
hours minutes
1 A learning action is when an employee watches or reads a piece of
Berkley Learning University content.
Berkley 2023 Sustainability Report 21
PILLAR 1: HUMAN CAPITAL & COMMUNITY
Innovation
Since the program’s launch, we have worked to advance
Today, companies face external challenges our progress along the innovation spectrum from
that can take the form of shifting customer incremental to game-changing ideas, and to increase
preferences and emerging risks, as well as internal the integration of our innovation activities with the
challenges such as the effects of technology on operations of our Businesses.
traditional employee roles. Berkley is rising to meet
In 2022, the Innovation team created The Edge, a podcast
these challenges through its culture of innovation and
series featuring Berkley leaders sharing their thoughts
by seeking to simultaneously serve the evolving needs
on topics such as innovation in the life sciences industry,
of our customers and prepare our employees for the
digital innovation’s effects on society, and how to build a
future. Berkley maintains an enterprise-wide Innovation
business from the ground up. The series also featured the
Through People program to nurture our entrepreneurial
story of how W. R. Berkley Corporation was started.
cultural foundations for continual growth and evolution.
Pillars of the Innovation Through People Program
1 2
Promoting Innovation Behaviors: Building a Culture of Innovation
The program introduces key & Entrepreneurism: Berkley has
foundational behaviors that we integrated the foundational
expect will serve employees at behaviors within our enterprise
work and in their personal lives. culture so that employees have
a foundation for creativity,
experimentation, fast failure,
learning, and resilience.
3 4
Creating Structures for Innovation: Capturing & Measuring Outcomes:
Berkley uses custom tools such as In 2020, Berkley built SPARK! as
I-Lab and SPARK! to ensure the a dedicated tool to allow us to
program’s sustainability. follow ideas throughout their life
cycle, measure their impact on our
Business, and drive enterprise-wide
idea engagement.
I-Lab and Podcast Metrics
Podcast listeners in 2022: I-Lab unique views: I-Lab site visits:
13,000+ 5,500+ 106,000+
Berkley 2023 Sustainability Report 22
PILLAR 1: HUMAN CAPITAL & COMMUNITY
Interaction with SPARK! in 2022
Interaction with SPARK! in 2022
Ideas by Category 3% Visits to SPARK!
5%
8,000+
6%
31%
7%
Comments
10,000+
10%
Number of Active Creators
1,354
15%
23%
Underwriting All Others New Ideas
Impact to Multiple Human Resources
Departments Operations 2,973
Claims Information Services
Sales & Marketing
Business Challenges Business Challenges
Created: Completed: Number of Votes
129 81 32,000+
Engagement
In 2022, Berkley unveiled The Berkley Green, an enterprise-wide intranet site based on an idea
from the 2022 IdeaFest Innovation competition. An intranet might not seem particularly innovative,
but Berkley is a diverse group of independent Businesses spread across the globe, making communication
exponentially more difficult. Each Berkley Business has its own intranet, but these sites were not linked together in the
past. The Berkley Green allows the Company to share information from across the enterprise with all Businesses and
to highlight what is happening in the organization. Employees can find benefits information on the HR page; the latest
updates on Innovation and Diversity, Inclusion, & Belonging efforts; news from across Businesses; available resources;
and links to both internal and external Berkley websites.
Berkley 2023 Sustainability Report 23
PILLAR 1: HUMAN CAPITAL & COMMUNITY
Mentorship
“The opportunity to work one-on-
In 2022-23, Berkley launched a comprehensive curriculum
one with an executive mentor on
of structured learning programs that provide current and
future leaders with the skills they need to drive innovative
my specific career goals really
business strategy and inspire their people to exceed
performance expectations. Berkley offers both in-person accelerated the learning I gained
and remote learning and development opportunities to
from the classroom and our
ensure access to training across our Businesses.
innovation project. My confidence
More than 400 top-performing managers will participate
in selective programs in 2023, taking part in opportunities
in taking on new challenges
such as:
has grown tremendously. The
• New Manager Program – This yearlong program
provides just-in-time learning for employees who are experience has been a pivot point
navigating their first year managing a team.
in my career.”
• Leadership Development Circle – This blended-
learning program for future executives features Chris S., Director of Software Development with
seminars with senior leaders, strength coaching, Berkley Regional Shared Services and 2022
executive mentorship, and team projects. graduate of the Leadership Development
Circle. Chris, a mentee in 2022, is acting as a
• Leadership Oculus – A six-month virtual training
mentor in 2023.
program, Leadership Oculus provides a deeper dive
into the skills required for leading business innovation,
linked to a real-world innovation experiment design.
• Innovation Teaching Series – In this virtual series,
In 2022, employees from 50 Berkley Businesses
professors from top U.S. business schools provide
graduated from the program after participating in
educational videos that tackle various subjects.
live seminars, conversations with Berkley leaders,
e-learning modules, and group video projects. In addition, thousands of Berkley employees and leaders
from across the enterprise take advantage of Berkley
• Management One – Now in its fourth decade, Berkley’s
Leadership Insights, a quarterly speaker series in which
live seminar in Greenwich, Connecticut, brings
senior executives share personal stories about the
potential C-Level leaders together with corporate
moments that defined leadership for them, and Crucial
leadership and external experts for classroom lectures,
Conversations, a live training program designed to help
case studies, and business simulations.
individuals convey challenging messages successfully.
A cornerstone of Berkley’s leadership-development
agenda continues to be mentorship, with the number
“We want Berkley managers at every
of executives matched with mid-career employees for
yearlong engagements expanding by almost 70% from
level to be able to elevate employee
2022 to 2023. By selecting mentorship pairs based on
performance to drive our business identified mentor strengths and mentee needs, as well
as providing world-class training and support resources,
strategy. A direct investment in each
Berkley ensures a meaningful and powerful experience for
participants on both sides.
leader reflects our commitment to the
development of all our employees.” By creating channels for leadership development, Berkley
empowers employees to grow their networks, build their
careers, and contribute to the Company’s success.
Carol L., W. R. Berkley Corporation’s Senior Vice
President – Human Resources
Berkley 2023 Sustainability Report 24
PILLAR 1: HUMAN CAPITAL & COMMUNITY
Community Impact
Berkley prides itself on its long tradition of community involvement in areas where it does business. This section
highlights our products and services that support the community and incentivize responsible behavior. It also
summarizes our customer retention and complaint metrics, as well as our philanthropic and volunteer efforts.
Customers
Ultimately, the results of our customer experience efforts
Property and casualty insurance is critical to the are reflected in our strong retention rates.
functioning of modern society and the overall economy.
Berkley provides a wide range of predominantly
Berkley plays a pivotal role by helping our customers
commercial lines insurance products through our
manage risk, which allows them to deliver products and
insurance subsidiaries. Our U.S. insurance subsidiaries
services to their customers. At Berkley, we strive for our
are subject to insurance regulation in the various
products and services to not only manage risk but also to
states and jurisdictions where they transact business.
promote responsible behavior and well-being.
Most state insurance departments provide consumer
Various Berkley Businesses support organizations in complaint data to the National Association of Insurance
industries that aim to help others or assist in making Commissioners (“NAIC”).
insurance accessible to small businesses. Our Businesses
The NAIC runs the Consumer Insurance Search (“CIS”)
also encourage healthy, safe, and environmentally
website, which receives complaint information from state
responsible actions and behaviors through product
insurance departments. The NAIC data does not provide
features, underwriting initiatives, and practices.
a single metric for all of Berkley’s insurance companies
From underwriting to claim servicing, we strive to provide combined. Neither the NAIC nor Berkley calculates a
great experiences for our customers. To achieve this, we complaints-to-claims ratio.
focus on maintaining excellent customer communication
In 2022, the total amount of monetary losses resulting
at every stage of the relationship. Our Businesses use a
from legal proceedings associated with the marketing
range of tools to communicate with our customers, such
and communication of insurance product-related
as product-specific web pages, customer and/or broker
information to new and returning customers, if any, were
portals, resources on loss prevention and safety, webinars
not material to us.
and conference educational sessions, videos, print or
online brochures and product overviews, educational
newsletters, and information about managing climate
and other types of risk. Many of our Businesses also use
LinkedIn, Facebook, and other social media platforms
to reach their policyholders and distribution networks.
Premium Retention Rates1
2020 2021 2022
79% 82% 82%
1 Note on methodology: Berkley tracks premium retention rate as the ratio
of premiums renewed versus premiums set to expire in the reporting year.
Berkley 2023 Sustainability Report 25
PILLAR 1: HUMAN CAPITAL & COMMUNITY
Responsible Product Offerings
The following are highlights of our responsible product offerings. For a discussion of our climate-related service
offerings, see Climate Change Opportunities.
Resilience Health & Safety Industries Small Businesses
• The Berkley Renewable Energy • Through our product- and • Berkley has six regional
division of Berkley Oil & Gas specialty-focused Businesses, Businesses in the U.S. that offer
targets clients in the alternative- Berkley is one of the largest broad portfolios of products
energy industry such as wind providers of workers’ and excess to small and medium-sized
farms, biomass conversion plants, workers’ compensation in the U.S., businesses in their defined
battery farms, hydro facilities, with a reported $1.4 billion of net territories.
and similar renewable-energy premiums written in these lines of
initiatives. business (“LOB”) in 2022. • Berkley Aspire and Nautilus
Insurance Group provide
• Berkley Environmental underwrites • Berkley Healthcare offers a wide commercial excess and surplus
environmental-liability products range of medical professional lines coverage to small and
for customers with environmental and financial lines coverages to medium-sized businesses
exposures, including contractors, the full spectrum of healthcare throughout the country.
consultants, property owners, and providers.
facilities operators. • Berkley Surety offers
• Berkley Accident & Health offers environmental and secured
• Berkley Insurance Australia writes a portfolio of accident and health credit surety bonds for small
professional risk exposures for products and services to a range contractors.
environmental consultants. of clients, from small employers
to healthcare organizations and • Intrepid Direct provides
• Berkley Surety issues surety membership groups of Fortune specialized business coverage
bonds related to environmental 500 companies. solutions through a direct
construction cleanup work. distribution model with a focus on
franchise businesses.
• Berkley Small Business Solutions
offers commercial insurance
products to small businesses
through a modern technology
platform that leverages data and
analytics to deliver a superior
customer experience.
Public Service Industries
• Berkley Human Services provides • Berkley Public Entity offers
insurance to nonprofit and for- coverage to governmental entities,
profit social service organizations, municipalities, and public schools.
such as day cares, group homes,
and senior citizen centers.
Berkley 2023 Sustainability Report 26
PILLAR 1: HUMAN CAPITAL & COMMUNITY
Community Involvement
Berkley has a long-standing tradition of community
involvement and intends to continue to support the
people where we live and work.
We provide community support at a local level and
through our funding of the W. R. Berkley Corporation
Charitable Foundation (“Foundation”). The purpose
of the Foundation is to enhance employee generosity
that originates at Berkley and our Businesses. Berkley
Businesses submit requests to the Foundation, which then
evaluates potential donations.
Through these efforts, Berkley, directly through our
Businesses and indirectly through the Foundation,
provided more than $1,280,000 of financial support to our
communities in 2022. Berkley and our employees have
focused time and resources on making an impact in the
following three areas: supporting the next generation,
food insecurity, and the environment.
A Berkley Tradition: The Gingerbread
House Auction
The Gingerbread House Auction is an annual holiday
event for employees at our corporate headquarters
that generates substantial donations to local charitable
organizations. Each year, employees design and build
elaborate structures made entirely of edible materials
and auction them off to their colleagues. Last year,
displays included replicas of our headquarters in
Greenwich, Connecticut, and London’s Tower Bridge;
depictions of fairy-tale worlds from the Wizard of Oz
and Candyland; and a replica of a home damaged
by severe weather. The funds raised are matched
by Berkley* and donated to a charity of the creator’s
choice. Charities chosen in 2022 included Near & Far Aid
Association; Hall Neighborhood House, Inc.; Neighbor
to Neighbor; Cancer Research Institute (CRI); Dana-
Farber Cancer Institute; Green Chimneys; and JDRF
International. The gingerbread houses are then brought
to local hospitals and community organizations to
spread holiday cheer.
*Donations are contributed through the W. R. Berkley Corporation
Charitable Foundation.
Berkley 2023 Sustainability Report 27
PILLAR 1: HUMAN CAPITAL & COMMUNITY
Supporting the Next Generation Food Insecurity
We understand the importance of contributing to the Berkley employees are dedicated to combating
development of the next generation of innovative food insecurity and increasing nutritional access
insurance professionals. We currently support in their local communities. Many of our Businesses
our employees’ participation in educational and exemplified this dedication in 2022.
professional development programs that provide
designations in the insurance industry, including For example, employees of Union Standard, Acadia
Chartered Property Casualty Underwriter (“CPCU”), Insurance, Berkley Industrial Comp, Berkley Life Sciences,
Associate in Reinsurance (“ARe”), Associate in Risk Nautilus, Continental Western Group, and Berkley
Management (“ARM”), Registered Professional Liability Agribusiness supported efforts to reduce food insecurity
Underwriter (“RPLU”), and Fellow of the Casualty Actuarial by volunteering at food banks, preparing meals, holding
Society (“FCAS”) credentials. Berkley has supported food drives, and partnering with local organizations.
professional development and networking opportunities
Environment
through industry trade groups such as the American
Property Casualty Insurance Association (“APCIA”), the Berkley also engages with our communities on issues
Independent Insurance Agents & Brokers of America, Inc. related to environmental protection. For example, in
(“Big ‘I’”), and the Wholesale and Specialty Insurance December 2022, Berkley Management Protection and
Association (“WSIA”). Through annual donations and its agency partners donated to One Tree Planted, which
Board participation, Berkley has also supported the St. funded the planting of 3,000 trees in support of the local
John’s University Maurice R. Greenberg School of Risk environment. Once fully grown, these trees will:
Management, Insurance and Actuarial Science.
• Produce enough oxygen annually to supply nearly 500
Berkley endeavors to help children gain access to people with a year’s worth of oxygen
education. For example, in 2022, we donated $150,000
• Absorb the same amount of carbon dioxide in just one
to Step Up for Students, an organization that provides
year as a car would produce driving almost 60,000
Florida students with personalized preK-12 scholarships.
miles
Additionally, the Company and several of our Businesses
have contributed to Kids’ Chance of America, Inc., and its
• Depending on the species, filter up to 1.5 million
local chapters for many years. Kids’ Chance of America,
gallons of water, which can reduce pollution such as
Inc., supports children affected by a parent’s work-
pesticides, solvents, and oils
related injury or death by helping to remove financial
obstacles to pursuing their educational goals. In 2022, we Tree planting helps restore and maintain the diverse
donated $62,900 to Kids’ Chance of America, Inc., and our natural ecosystem, strengthening resilience in the face of
Businesses raised additional money for the organization climate change by providing a stronger habitat in which
through fundraising activities such as 5K runs and Kids’ people, plants, animals, and other organisms can adapt
Chance Awareness Week. Berkley employees also serve to warmer temperatures and extreme weather.
on the boards of directors at local chapters and the
national Kids’ Chance organization.
PILLAR 2: CLIMATE RISK MANAGEMENT
Berkley 2023 Sustainability Report 28
PILLAR 1: HUMAN CAPITAL & COMMUNITY
We engage with the communities where we live and work. In certain circumstances, we also:
Provide charitable Conduct disaster Match employee Compensate employees
donations and relief efforts donations for their time when they
sponsorships volunteer at local
nonprofit organizations
during work hours
Berkley 2023 Sustainability Report 29
PILLAR 1: HUMAN CAPITAL & COMMUNITY
Berkley Businesses Get Involved
Berkley is proud to empower our Businesses to choose how they want to make a difference in their
communities. At a local level, we encourage our Businesses to be involved in charitable organizations that
make an impact in their communities. Many of our Businesses have created internal support structures, such as
philanthropy committees, to organize community involvement and collect employee donations. To encourage
additional support, many Businesses use their social media and marketing teams to promote local organizations
and educate their networks about priority issues in their communities.
The highlights below provide a snapshot of how Berkley Businesses got involved with local organizations and made
contributions to meet the needs of their communities in 2022.
Berkley Technology Underwriters, Berkley Berkley Offshore –
Risk, and Berkley Human Services – HandsOn London
Acts of Kindness
Underwriting managers from Berkley Offshore
Volunteers from Berkley Technology Underwriters, Berkley spearheaded an effort to support HandsOn London, an
Risk, and Berkley Human Services joined together in organization that promotes volunteering and community
Minneapolis to participate in 3,000 Acts of Kindness, service in London. Berkley Offshore and other London-
an annual charity event that aims to bring hope and based Berkley Businesses collected and donated warm
dignity to 3,000 homeless individuals in the Twin Cities by coats for those in need as part of the organization’s
providing access to necessities and services. Our teams WrapUp London campaign, which has collected and
helped collect coats, hats, gloves, scarves, sleeping bags, distributed more than 197,000 coats since 2011.
boots, warm meals, and other necessities for unhoused
individuals and families in need.
Berkley Entertainment – W/R/B Underwriting –
The Family Place Anthony Nolan and JustGiving
The mission of The Family Place is to empower survivors To honor the memory of a dear colleague, team members
of family violence by providing safe housing, offering from W/R/B Underwriting ran the Royal Parks Half Marathon
counseling, and building skills that create independence for the colleague’s chosen charity, Anthony Nolan, which
while advocating for social change. Berkley aims to save the lives of people with blood cancer. The
Entertainment employees held a company fundraiser team raised nearly £3,000 in October for the charity
for The Family Place, and Berkley matched donations through the JustGiving online fundraising platform, putting
through the Foundation. it among the top 5% of fundraisers for that month.
Berkley Technology Services – Berkley Insurance Australia –
Sock Drive Dementia Australia
The Urbandale team of Berkley Technology Services In 2022, Berkley Insurance Australia pledged to donate
hosted a sock drive for Central Iowa Shelter & Services, $1 for every policy bound to Dementia Australia, an
which provides about 300 pairs of socks to community organization that shines a light on dementia awareness.
members in need every day throughout the winter. Our A trusted source of information, education, research,
team members volunteered their time and effort to and services related to dementia, Dementia Australia
collect socks and give back to our community before the advocates for the estimated half a million Australians
winter season. living with dementia and the more than 1.5 million
individuals involved in their care.
Berkley 2023 Sustainability Report 30
PILLAR 2
CLIMATE RISK
MANAGEMENT
PILLAR-SPECIFIC SDGS:
Berkley 2023 Sustainability Report 31
PILLAR 2: CLIMATE RISK MANAGEMENT
Climate risk presents a number of challenges to all companies through physical and transition risks. Key potential risks
of climate change to Berkley, as a property and casualty insurance provider, include changes in the frequency and/or
severity of natural perils such as hurricanes, coastal floods, and wildfires, and regional variability in peril change. Any of
these may affect our operations, our exposures, our investments, and our policyholders.
Managing risks, including those posed by climate and environmental change, is central to our ability to thrive now
and for generations into the future. The uncertainties posed by climate change also afford numerous opportunities for
our Businesses to support policyholders in navigating a world of climate change–influenced weather events and the
transition to a low-carbon economy.
Throughout this chapter, we discuss three areas of municipal bonds in areas that we expect to be most
Berkley’s exposure to climate risk: subject to catastrophic loss.
1. Underwriting Risk: We seek to carefully manage and 3. Operational Risks: These risks lie primarily with our
control underwriting risk. Our decentralized structure buildings and other physical asset investments that
gives us a high degree of flexibility and nimbleness in could be affected by hurricanes, flooding, wildfires,
navigating risk among our Businesses. Our insurance and other environmental events.
risk is diversified, and our policies generally have one-
year terms, so we can quickly modify pricing, terms, and We recognize the increasing importance of managing
conditions to seek to achieve targeted risk-adjusted exposure to climate risk for all members of society. We
returns or enter and exit lines of business, if necessary, model and analyze catastrophe risks and share the
as the risk landscape changes. Exposure to catastrophe results with our ERM Committee. We also track certain
loss is modeled and managed. Loss control has always trends in perils such as wildfires and severe convective
been important, and we are focused on supporting storms, analyzing the difference between actual losses
our policyholders’ efforts to avoid damages related to arising from natural catastrophes and those that are
the changes in frequency and severity of catastrophe anticipated. Berkley also tracks changes in our exposures
events due to climate change. to the most significant greenhouse gas (“GHG”)
producers. Climate-related risks, including catastrophe
2. Investment Risk: Berkley also monitors investment exposures, are incorporated in our investment analysis.
risk related to climate change. The majority of our
investments are in fixed-maturity securities with Berkley responds annually to the NAIC Climate Risk
an average duration of less than 2.5 years and Disclosure Survey and publishes these responses on our
an average AA- credit quality, which reduces the website. We have written this report in consideration of
potential financial impact of long-term economic the TCFD disclosure recommendations and have included
changes, including those arising from climate change. a TCFD index in the appendices to this report.
In addition, Berkley seeks to limit our investments in
Berkley 2023 Sustainability Report 32
PILLAR 2: CLIMATE RISK MANAGEMENT
Risk Assessment & Modeling
Finally, we considered operational risk at the enterprise level.
To better manage our Businesses’ exposures to the Risk Assessment: Underwriting
physical and transition risks of climate change, we
performed a qualitative climate change risk assessment
in 2022 and began a proof of concept for a quantitative
climate change scenario analysis to assess the risks
that are most likely to have a significant impact on our
Businesses. Details of these processes and the results of
the exercises are summarized below. Reserve Risk
Qualitative Risk Assessment
The qualitative risk assessment focused on three ERM risk
categories: underwriting, investments, and operational
risk from developing regulation.
Our underwriting risk assessment considered the potential
impacts of physical and transition climate risk on pricing Risk Selection and Assessment Ranking of Our
and risk selection, reserving, and strategy for individual Pricing Risk Businesses
LOBs. Each of these aspects of underwriting risk was con- by Perceived
sidered through the lens of the most relevant time horizon Vulnerability to
for that aspect of risk based on the following definitions: Climate Risk
• Short: 0-5 years
• Medium: 5-20 years Strategic Risk
• Long: 20+ years
These LOB assessments were then modified to reflect
the characteristics of the portfolios written by individual Risk Assessment: Investments
Businesses to provide an overall risk perspective for the
Businesses’ underwriting risk from climate change. The
result was a ranking of our Businesses by exposure to
climate risk.
Our insurance companies in various jurisdictions were
also assessed for their ability to satisfy climate change
Risk Assessment Targeted Risk Overall Risk
regulatory reporting requirements. Factors such as date of
of Specific Assessment of Rating for
compliance, actions to comply, and associated penalties
Industries Our Individual Various Portfolio
for noncompliance were considered. A preliminary risk
Holdings Components
rating was assigned for each insurance company. These
regulated entities were then mapped to all associated
Businesses and a weighted assessment was determined.
We similarly assessed our investments, which are
managed by Berkley’s internal investment manager.
First, we conducted a broad assessment of the risk
associated with specific industries. We then conducted
a second assessment to incorporate specific aspects
of our individual holdings, such as industry subgroup,
asset class, investment duration, investment grade, and
more. The result was an overall risk rating for the various
components of our investment portfolio.
Finally, we considered operational risk at the enterprise level.
Berkley 2023 Sustainability Report 33
PILLAR 2: CLIMATE RISK MANAGEMENT
Quantitative Scenario Analysis Proof
refine the methodology for future use and have not yet
of Concept
explicitly influenced any major business or underwriting
decisions.
Climate risks and opportunities are generally expected
to manifest over long time horizons with high uncertainty Catastrophe Risk Management & Modeling
regarding how climate trends, government policy, and
socioeconomic factors will emerge in the future. To gain Catastrophe risk is a key consideration in the strategic
a better understanding of how some of the underwriting management of our Company, and we consider this
risks identified in the qualitative risk assessment may type of risk in an analytical manner. Berkley establishes a
manifest and affect the business under potential risk appetite as a percentage of total capital exposed to
climate futures, we developed a proof of concept for a events at various probabilities of occurrence for our key
quantitative underwriting climate scenario analysis and catastrophe risks: earthquake, hurricane, and on a multi-
tested it on select Businesses. Our pilot methodology peril basis. The risk appetite indicates the size of loss we
attempted to quantify the impact of a changing climate believe our Company could sustain without materially
on individual economic sectors (such as the fossil fuel, affecting the ongoing business. Percentages are used in
renewable energy, and transportation subsectors). place of dollar thresholds to scale up or down with our
The methodology is intended to be used as a stress Company’s capital resources. Risk utilization is regularly
test of premium volume in the sectors and geographic monitored and reported to the ERM Committee. Risks
locations where each Business may have a reliance on approaching risk appetite must be specifically addressed,
policyholders in those markets under short-, medium-, and any overutilization must be approved by Berkley’s
and long-term future time horizons and climate President and CEO. Our philosophy is that we should avoid
scenarios. (We continue to evaluate the results of this risks that might prevent us from doing business tomorrow
pilot methodology, its applicability to stress tests on other in substantially the same way that we do today.
metrics, and whether this methodology is fit for purpose.)
As part of this process, our ERM team seeks to monitor key
In developing our proof of concept, we used the climate catastrophe exposures for Berkley overall and for each of
scenarios developed by the Network for Greening the our individual Businesses, and to identify locations and
Financial System (“NGFS”), which are largely considered policies that are most likely to give rise to a substantial
the industry standard for climate scenario analysis within loss from catastrophic events such as hurricanes.
the financial sector. Using the underlying NGFS data and
To understand the effects of climate change on
assumptions across those scenarios, we tested the pilot
catastrophe risks in our business, our ERM team studies
exercise across select Businesses. While not implemented
scientific reports on the potential impacts of climate
enterprise-wide, the modeling methodology and detailed
change, specifically focusing on current climatic
framework were designed to be customized to allow for
conditions, and conducts analysis that helps us evaluate
potential future implementation across any Business. As
the possible effects of climate change on potential
such, the results of this exercise were only used to help
insured losses.
Berkley 2023 Sustainability Report 34
PILLAR 2: CLIMATE RISK MANAGEMENT
Climate Risk in Catastrophe Modeling Berkley, which facilitates the monitoring and modeling
of catastrophes. This mapping software can help each
Berkley uses computer models developed specifically
Business to identify its exposed limits by LOB, type of
to assess the risk from weather-related catastrophe
exposure (buildings, contents, business interruption, etc.),
events—including, but not limited to, tornadoes, hurricanes,
the number of locations, and the actual policies that are
and hailstorms—and outsources additional modeling to
exposed in a particular location.
vendors to provide a second perspective on the frequency
and severity of weather-related catastrophe events.
Each Business includes the catastrophe-exposed limits
it anticipates for the next year by region and county tier
To make our modeling more robust, our ERM team
in its business plan, and the Berkley ERM team monitors
attempts to assess the possibility of “model miss” within
each Business against its planned aggregate over the
vendor catastrophe models; this includes a comparison
course of each year.
of modeled industry losses against revalued historical
losses, an assessment of individual subcomponents
Actual catastrophe losses, excluding pandemic-related
within the model, and stress-testing model frequency
losses, averaged 2.0 loss ratio points over the five-year
and severity assumptions. Models may not be available
period of 2018 to 2022.
for all types of risks. In addition to this probabilistic view
of natural catastrophe risk, our Company also monitors Finally, our ERM team continues to evaluate emerging
estimated losses to multiple natural catastrophe realistic risks and developing risk assessment tools. For example,
disaster scenarios. our ERM team has investigated the potential impact
of sea-level changes on the storm surge that could
Overall, Berkley identifies and models our hurricane
occur in conjunction with a hurricane. In several
risks in 23 states that we believe are most likely to be
locations where we operate, the effect is compounded
affected by these perils. On an annual basis, we also have
by land subsidence—for example, the subsidence due
exposures modeled in an alternative vendor model with
to postglacial rebound in New York and groundwater
a broader set of states. Our ERM Committee discusses
extraction in New Orleans. We also continue to investigate
these computer modeling results regularly.
available computer models for riverine and surface-
water floods.
Berkley also provides each insurance Business with data
on its exposures and with mapping software licensed by
Building a Better Model for Wildfire Risk
Although personal property has traditionally
accounted for the greatest proportion of industry-
wide insured losses from wildfire, the share of
commercial property losses from wildfires in the
U.S. has been increasing. For the past several years,
our risk analysis has pointed to a possible increase
in the frequency of wildfires in the U.S., as well as a
larger average area burned in a single wildfire. We
have developed an accumulation model for wildfire
risk in California for use by our Lloyd’s syndicate.
Data is updated to reflect recent wildfire activity and
the number of acres burned. The model is used in
monitoring risk accumulations for both primary and
reinsurance Businesses.
Berkley 2023 Sustainability Report 35
PPIILLLLAARR 22:: CCLLIIMMAATTEE RRIISSKK MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT
Climate Change Risks & Opportunities
Underwriting Risks
Our Company is exposed to risks from climate change due to our underwriting activities. These risks differ by LOB and
product and could manifest through changes in premium volume, changes in future loss experience, or changes in the
runoff of loss reserves. Berkley has identified several risks to the performance of the LOBs:
The agriculture industry has a significant High-carbon-emitting sectors such as oil
exposure to physical risks for various and gas are expected to see widespread
coverages because large warehouses and regulation and litigation designed to reduce
crop fields are vulnerable to damages from the use of fossil fuels and encourage
physical events. More broadly, policyholders may not be increased use of renewable energy. Coverages Berkley
able to relocate away from physical risks because certain writes may experience a significant impact from social
crops must be grown in certain geographical locations inflation, which could expose policyholders to new and
where climate and land conditions are favorable. more extreme forms of litigation.
Environmental products, such as pollution The transportation industry is a high-
liability coverage, are expected to see emitting sector that is expected to see
heightened transition and physical risks due more-stringent climate-related policies
to the hazardous nature of the businesses for personal and commercial vehicles. Insuring
covered and because of changes in the frequency and commercial vehicles also poses a physical risk because
severity of weather events. entire fleets are exposed to weather events such as
hurricanes and tornadoes.
The level of risk will differ by Business based on the premium volume and the uncertain impact of climate change
on the loss costs in the LOBs they write, as well as the specifics of the business written. Factors that affect the risk to
individual Businesses include the industries insured, the geographic concentration of the business, the specific terms
and conditions in the insurance policies, and the ability to charge appropriate rates that reflect the current risk profile.
As detailed in this section, our analysis allows us to consider modifying underwriting activities to better manage these
risks to a reasonable level on an ongoing basis.
Evolving Sustainability in the Lloyd’s
Marketplace
In October 2021, Corporation of Lloyd’s issued market-
wide guidance for establishing an ESG framework. In
2022, as part of the Lloyd’s business planning process
for 2023, W/R/B Underwriting, like all other market
participants, was asked to submit its ESG strategy.
Lloyd’s has asserted that this process, and these
new requirements, provide the market with a holistic
view of the plans and the progress being made by all
market participants to support a more sustainable,
resilient, and inclusive marketplace.
Berkley 2023 Sustainability Report 36
PILLAR 2: CLIMATE RISK MANAGEMENT
Investment Risks
Berkley is also exposed to climate change risk through
Berkley considers the level of climate risk across the
our investments. Risks manifest through both the
investment portfolio as part of our risk management
underlying industries that Berkley invests in and
process. Climate-related investment risks, such as
the characteristics of specific asset types. Berkley’s
transition risks, are mitigated by the nature of our
qualitative analysis identified several risks to the
investments, as the majority of our investments are
investment portfolio:
in fixed-maturity securities with an average duration
of less than 2.5 years and an average rating of AA-.
• Oil, gas, and pipeline investments face the highest
High-quality short-term investments incur lower risk
risk overall from climate change. These investments
in the face of potential long-term economic impacts
are exposed to high physical risk due to significant
caused by climate change.
offshore and coastal operations, as well as to high
transition risk due to regulatory changes and evolving
societal perceptions.
• Investments in municipal bonds could be at risk from • Investments in electric utilities are exposed to
climate change because of the risk to underlying significant physical risk due to the large and complex
municipal assets from the impacts of climate change, infrastructure and equipment used in the industry.
thus potentially increasing the likelihood of default. Transition risks also exist due to the potential for the
imposition of carbon pricing in various jurisdictions.
Berkley 2023 Sustainability Report 37
PILLAR 2: CLIMATE RISK MANAGEMENT
Operational Risks
Berkley Office Locations
We seek to avoid the risk of functional obsolescence of
our office locations, and we consider climate risks in that
analysis. We assess each individual property location for
catastrophe risk, with particular focus on those nearest to
a coast, river, or estuary.
When considering real estate purchases and leases,
Berkley’s investment and lease administration teams
consider the exposure to catastrophes at that location.
When there is a risk of natural catastrophe, our
investment and lease-administration teams assess the
current risk and review flood risk maps and elevation
to consider the possibility of increased risk over future
years, if sea levels rise. These factors are taken into
consideration when determining whether to proceed with
the purchase or lease.
Because the built environment accounts for almost 40%
of global energy-related carbon emissions,4 we embrace
sustainable-building standards wherever possible.
As part of our efforts to mitigate the impact of our
operations on the environment, including leased assets,
Berkley works to procure office space at buildings that are
Berkley-Occupied Buildings with
certified by BREEAM, LEED, or ENERGY STAR where practical.
LEED-certified buildings consume 25% less energy,5 Environmental Certifications
according to a study conducted by the U.S. Department
Building City Certification
of Energy and the General Services Administration
that reviewed 22 LEED-certified buildings, which leads
Urban Towers Irving, Texas LEED Gold
to estimated emissions savings of 34%. The U.S. Green
Building Council indicates that employees working at
725 South Figueroa Los Angeles,
LEED-certified buildings feel more content, healthier, and LEED Platinum
Street California
more productive.6 Our Metro Center office in Stamford,
Connecticut, is part of a carbon-neutral community of ENERGY STAR®
Stamford,
buildings. Located within the Metro Center complex, this Metro Center Well Health
Connecticut
building has been ENERGY STAR certified—a certification
Safety Rating
which the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”)
awards to buildings that meet strict energy performance New York City, LEED Silver
standards—for four years.7 The property manager also 757 Third Ave
New York ENERGY STAR®
implemented multiple sustainability initiatives at the
Metro Center office in partnership with Berkley.8
The Scalpel London, England BREEAM
4 “Why the Built Environment?,” Architecture 2030, accessed May 22, 2023, https://architecture2030.org/why-the-building-sector/.
5 Kim Fowler et al., Re-Assessing Green Building Performance: A Post Occupancy Evaluation of 22 GSA Buildings, Pacific Northwest National Laboratory,
September 2011, https://www.pnnl.gov/main/publications/external/technical_reports/PNNL-19369.pdf.
6 “Health in LEED,” U.S. Green Building Council, June 2022, https://www.usgbc.org/sites/default/files/2022-07/Health-in-LEED_June2022.pdf.
7 For more information regarding ENERGY STAR building certifications, see https://www.energystar.gov/buildings/building_recognition/building_
certification.
8 “Metro Center,” Empire State Realty Trust, May 2019, https://www.esrtreit.com/wp-content/uploads/pdf/ESRTFactsFigures_Metro_Center_
Suburban-May-19.pdf.
Berkley 2023 Sustainability Report 38
PILLAR 2: CLIMATE RISK MANAGEMENT
Sustainability at Metro Center
In May 2022, Empire State Realty Trust (“ESRT”), the
owner of Metro Center in Stamford, Connecticut,
where several of our Businesses are tenants, was
named a 2022 Platinum Green Lease Leader. The
U.S. Department of Energy’s Better Buildings Alliance
and the Institute for Market Transformation award
this designation to landlords and tenants who show
improvements on energy efficiency, cost savings, air
quality, and sustainability in buildings. ESRT reduced
greenhouse gas (“GHG”) emissions intensity by 7.5%
across its entire commercial portfolio between 2021
and 2022. The company also reduced commercial
GHG total emissions by 8% despite a 4% increase
in commercial energy consumption compared
with 2021. The improvements made at Metro Center
contributed to these reductions.1
1 2022 Sustainability Report, Empire State Realty Trust, https://online.
flippingbook.com/link/859359/.
Metro Center, Stamford, Connecticut
GHG Emissions
As part of our ESG operating model, Berkley 2022 Emissions
has been building on efforts to increase the
portfolio coverage of our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions
disclosure. This is Berkley’s second year calculating
a global footprint, and we are using an estimation
Total Scope 1: Total Scope 2:
methodology consistent with the GHG Protocol. To obtain
the data needed for this exercise, we collaborated 7,435 16,190
with our lease-administration and facilities teams. We
continue to refine our GHG reporting process. MT of COe MT of COe
2 2
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions:
23,625
MT of COe
2
Note: We use an estimation methodology consistent with The
Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting
Standard (Revised Edition) to calculate our Scope 1 and 2 GHG
emissions.
Berkley 2023 Sustainability Report 39
PILLAR 2: CLIMATE RISK MANAGEMENT
Business Continuity Planning
We have developed what we believe to be a
Business Continuity
comprehensive business continuity plan for operational
The processes initiated to resume business
risks—our ability to provide uninterrupted and
operations to a level consistent with business
uncompromised services. Floods, wildfires, and other
requirements can include:
natural disasters could affect one or more of Berkley’s
office locations. To help prevent business interruptions,
we have developed business continuity plans at each of Business impact Manual
our Businesses to maintain functionality during significant analysis workarounds
disruptions. Each Business is responsible for remote-
access testing to ensure employees can work from home,
Scenario testing
if required. Additionally, we follow policies for business Call trees
exercises
continuity set by insurance industry regulators and review
and consider those recommended by insurance industry
trade associations.
Remote-access
Alternate sites
Recent hurricanes have provided live “use cases” for training
our business continuity planning, as has the COVID-19
pandemic. During recent hurricanes, several of our U.S.
office locations were closed but successfully continued
Outsourcing
with business as usual. Our business continuity plans
also worked extremely well in 2020, when almost 100% of
employees worked from home for an extended period
of time in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, without
disruption to our operations.
Other Climate-Related Risks
Crisis Management & Emergency Response
Legal Risk: As industry practices and economic, legal,
A series of actions can be taken to gain control of
judicial, social, and other environmental conditions
a crisis event quickly to minimize the effects of a
change, unexpected and unintended issues related to
disruption, prepare for and oversee recovery, and
claims and coverage may emerge. These issues may
manage communications throughout, such as:
adversely affect our Businesses by either extending
coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing
the number or size of claims. Emerging claims and
Evacuation
coverage issues include, but are not limited to, potentially Hotlines
plans
changing climate conditions. We continue to monitor
industry practices and developments related to standard
climate change exclusions on policies. Emergency
Crisis teams
communications
Transition Risk: In addition to monitoring physical risk
and liability risk, we also continue to monitor potential
changes in areas such as legislation, regulation, or
Response IT command
reporting requirements relating to the transition to a
templates centers
lower-carbon economy for possible impacts on the
Company and our customers. Among other actions,
we may refine our underwriting or risk appetite, make Escalation
Exercises
changes to our investment portfolio, establish new or criteria
additional procedures and processes, or adjust staffing
levels or use of contracted services to help us address
such changes.
Berkley 2023 Sustainability Report 40
PILLAR 2: CLIMATE RISK MANAGEMENT
Climate Change Opportunities
Berkley has identified opportunities to benefit our Businesses amid the uncertainties around climate
change. In 2022, we underwrote approximately $47 million of net premiums related to certain energy
efficiency and low-carbon technology risks. These opportunities include the following:
Insuring Alternative Energy Supporting Businesses with
Companies ESG Disclosure Requirements
Several of our Businesses insure One Berkley Business provides
companies in the renewable-energy management liability coverages to U.S.
sector, which supports the growth of renewable publicly traded and large privately held companies,
energy in the U.S. By insuring these operations, our which are by nature complex, sophisticated
Company makes a positive contribution to the growth operations heavily focused on risk management,
of operations that produce energy from non-fossil fuel including climate change initiatives. The disclosure
sources, which may help to reduce GHG emissions. requirements of U.S. public companies on ESG topics,
including climate change, generally arise out of
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”)
regulations, accounting standards, the Sarbanes-
Oxley Act of 2002, and state regulations. Additionally,
those policyholders often adhere to protocols that
Supporting the Transition to
have emerged for the voluntary reporting of ESG
Electric Vehicles matters established by nongovernmental entities,
including the disclosure of information regarding
One Berkley Business insures companies the environment, sustainability, corporate social
engaged in development and responsibility, and, more recently, climate change
maintenance work for electric vehicle and GHG emissions.
manufacturing.
Another insures multi-passenger public transportation
in support of lowering emissions and is exploring
electric vehicle alternatives with policyholders.
In addition, we continued to transition our U.S. fleet of
cars to hybrid sedans and SUVs in 2022.
Preserving Wetlands
One of our Businesses has
an insurance product for
companies engaged in the restoration,
Supporting Sustainable
construction, enhancement, and preservation of
Design & Construction
wetlands and streams (i.e., aquatic resources) with
the goal of offsetting the loss of resources from
One Berkley Business provides liability other projects authorized by the U.S. Army Corps of
insurance to architects, engineers, Engineers. This product provides the customer with
and contractors, insuring a number of firms that are confidence that the construction of these aquatic
involved in LEED building design and construction. resources can be completed.
In doing so, the Business supports the work of these
firms in building environmentally friendly structures
that have explicit standards for carbon outputs.
Berkley 2023 Sustainability Report 41
PILLAR 2: CLIMATE RISK MANAGEMENT
Assisting Clients with Certified Green Dwellings
Emergency Evacuation
As a provider of insurance to high-
Procedures
net-worth individuals, Berkley One has
the opportunity to underwrite certified
Another Berkley Business assists clients with the
green homes. The Business accepts certifications
development of emergency evacuation procedures
from the U.S. Green Building Council (LEED rating
for tornadoes, hurricanes, ice or snowstorms, and
system for homes) and the National Association
other weather-related events. It also provides training
of Home Builders, both of which can certify homes
materials to teach employees how to manage heat
that meet the applicable standards. For example,
stress and hurricane cleanup safely.
the National Association of Home Builders certifies
for high performance in six areas—lot design and
development, resource efficiency, water efficiency,
energy efficiency, indoor environmental quality, and
building operation and maintenance. It bestows four
levels of certification: Bronze, Silver, Gold, and Emerald.
Berkley 2023 Sustainability Report 42
PILLAR 2: CLIMATE RISK MANAGEMENT
Climate Change Risk Management
and take into consideration the messages provided
& Mitigation
by environmental and climate special interest groups.
However, these issues have many dimensions that we
Berkley seeks to support the transition to a low-carbon seek to weigh and assess, and we remain conscious of
economy through our policies and practices. We believe the views of various stakeholders. We endeavor to strike
that withdrawing all underwriting for specific sectors is a balance between long-term objectives and short-term
not an appropriate or responsible approach to these impacts by considering the risks inherent in each client’s
efforts and will continue to consider underwriting business during the underwriting process, including
insurance for companies engaged in legal businesses. environmental and social risks, and their potential impact
We recognize the issues and challenges that come with on the financial condition of the business.
certain exposures, such as those in fossil fuel industries,
Underwriting
We incorporate catastrophe exposure in the underwriting and pricing processes implemented at each of our
Businesses, where applicable. ESG factors are considered in underwriting where prescribed by local regulation. This
gives each Business the flexibility to deal with localized jurisdictional factors and information related to each client.
Berkley reviews its overall risk on a portfolio basis, rather than assessing the impact of specific industries or activities
on an individual basis.
Berkley 2023 Sustainability Report 43
PILLAR 2: CLIMATE RISK MANAGEMENT
Addressing Identified Climate Risk
In response to the ERM team’s catastrophe and climate Our approach to risk is designed to allow us to better
change analyses and reports, we have taken several mitigate excessive costs. We exercise particular
actions to manage our exposure, including the following: caution in three areas:
the use of peril-specific deductibles or sublimits, the
nonrenewal of specific policies, the re-underwriting of Where flood coverage is provided
particular segments of the portfolio, and the purchase of in Federal Emergency Management
additional reinsurance protection. Agency (“FEMA”) flood zones, generally a
modest limit is provided.
We consider catastrophe modeling and management,
along with other risks and stress testing, in the evaluation We do not currently write personal lines
of our risk capital needs. This evaluation also takes into homeowners insurance in California,
account regulatory requirements, financial strength, and where the vast majority of wildfire losses
credit rating considerations, among other factors. take place. To the extent permitted
by insurance regulation applicable to
Aggregate catastrophe losses for the period are
each state, we are using a wildfire risk
reported in quarterly earnings releases and SEC filings
score as part of our risk selection and
for each reporting segment and in the aggregate for
underwriting process for homeowners
our Company. The impact of catastrophe losses on our
insurance. To help mitigate the risk of
earnings has been below the industry average for many
wildfire damage, we employ a range of
years because of our careful risk management and
services for individual homeowners.
commitment to building long-term shareholder value
through superior risk-adjusted returns. We do not offer crop insurance (i.e., crop
multi-peril business), which could be
As industry practices and economic, legal, judicial, social,
significantly affected by drought or flood.
and other environmental conditions change, unexpected
and unintended issues related to claims and coverage
may emerge.
• Environmental risk and impact management
We continue to monitor industry practices and
developments related to standard climate change
• Resource efficiency
exclusions on policies.
• Pollution prevention and management
Additional Environmental Factors Affecting
Risk Appetite for Our Businesses • Ecosystems and biodiversity
• Low-carbon technology (including renewable energy
Climate change is just one of the environmental factors
insurance, energy savings warranties, and carbon
affecting our Businesses’ risk appetite and selection.
capture and storage insurance)
Other factors include:
Berkley 2023 Sustainability Report 44
PILLAR 2: CLIMATE RISK MANAGEMENT
Loss Control
The following loss control services and related education
As part of our climate change risk management and efforts are currently available and have been offered to
The following loss control services and related
mitigation strategy, our Businesses may use risk surveys certain policyholders:
education efforts are currently available and have
and inspections to determine roof integrity, erosion and
• Dbaetean o onf fpeoretedn ttoia cl elorstasin policyholders:
landslide risk, wildfire precautions, excess snow loading
on roofs, and exposure to hailstorms, and to provide • M• eaDsautraes o nne peodteedn ttioa lp lorostsect property
customers with ways to proactively mitigate their
risk of loss. Some of these inspections are conducted • E•v alMuaetaiosnu roefs l onseseedse wd itthoi np rao treecgti opnroapl aerretya that is prone
virtually, using point-to-point technology for virtual to certain types of losses
• Evaluation of losses within a regional area that is
risk assessment and hazard identifications, which also
reduces our carbon footprint. • Advpicreo noen troe scileiertnacine tayrpoeusn dof n loastuserasl perils
Many of our Businesses also offer regularly updated loss • T•r ainAidnvgi cwee obnin raerssil iteon acses aisrto inu nedd uncaatutiroanl paenrdil sloss
control services, advising policyholders on ways to reduce mitigation
• Training webinars to assist in education and loss
the risk of losses, including those caused by various
• Greemni tcigoavetiroange endorsements for property, inland
climate-influenced risks.
marine, and equipment breakdown to encourage
• Green coverage endorsements for property, inland
Loss Control Education & Services policyholders to “think sustainably”
marine, and equipment breakdown to encourage
We work to help our policyholders reduce their • Webpsoitleicsy choonldtaerins itnog “ ttihpisn ko nsu as tbarionaadb lrya”nge of risk
losses from climate change through education mitigation measures such as disaster planning,
• Websites containing tips on a broad range of risk
and prevention measures. One of our Businesses offers construction, and “green construction,” as well
mitigation measures such as disaster planning,
webinars and consulting services through the Nonprofit as influences of weather and safety, that provide
construction, and “green construction,” as well
Risk Management Center to help policyholders reduce policyholders with practical tools and online training
as influences of weather and safety, that provide
losses caused by events related to climate change.
Some Businesses also alert policyholders to upcoming • Mitigpaotliiocynh aodldveicres wonit hb apcrakuctpic paol wtoeorl sg eannedr aotniolinne
weather conditions through weather alert postings on systtermains iangnd suppliers available to policyholders
their websites or state department of insurance bulletins
• T•ip sM ointi ggaretieonn caodnvsictreu octnio bna, ceknueprg pyo ewffiecr igeenncey,r ation
communicated directly to policyholders or through
influseynscteems osf a wneda stuhperp alienrds oatvhaeirla rbellea tteod p toolpicicyhs oolnd ers
producers. Many Businesses inform policyholders of
social media pages to provide practical tools for
environmental changes through a variety of loss control • Tips on green construction, energy efficiency,
policyholders to handle potential climate hazards and
options, including “tips” brochures, webinars, training influences of weather and other related topics on
mitigate the size and severity of the potential loss
opportunities, newsletters, and disaster planning material. social media pages to provide practical tools for
• Guidpaonlicceyh oonld merasn taog hinagn dulpec poomteinngti ahlu crlriimcaantee hseaazasordnss
Various Businesses engage with insurance industry trade
thata tnydp imcaitlliyg aptoein tthse r esiazed earnsd to swevaerdri tay cohf ethcek lpisot tferonmtia l
organizations on overall industry and loss control issues,
the Nloastsional Hurricane Survival Initiative and FEMA’s
such as changes to FEMA, to encourage actuarially
business toolkits
sound rates, building codes, and safety and storm • Guidance on managing upcoming hurricane
preparedness. Specifically, one Business is an active • Trainseinags omnast tehraiatl sty tphircoaulglyh p ao itnhtisrd re-paadretrys r tisokw ard a
participant in the Inland Marine Underwriters Association mancahgeecmkliestn ftr ovemn dthoer aNbaotiuotn rael dHuucrirnicga enme Sisusriovinvsa; l
(“IMUA”) and sits on panels at industry events promoting the vIneitniadtoivr ep raonvdid FeEsM oAp’se rbautsioinneasl sim toporlokivtesment
loss control as it pertains to weather-related events.
or technological solutions including operational
• Training materials through a third-party risk
efficiency, fuel efficiency, loss prevention, and spill
management vendor about reducing emissions;
mitigation
the vendor provides operational improvement
• Trainoirn tge cohnn hoolowg ticoa pl rseosleuntito snas fien-cdluridviinngg ompeeeratintigons atol
empelfofiyceieensc rye,l afutienlg e ftfioc hieignhc yw, ilnodsss parnedv ecnhtaionng, inagn dro sapdil l
condmitiitoignast, isounch as winter driving
• Training on how to present safe-driving meetings
to employees relating to high winds and changing
road conditions, such as winter driving
Berkley 2023 Sustainability Report 45
PILLAR 2: CLIMATE RISK MANAGEMENT
Business Highlight: Personal Lines
This Business continues to offer discounts to policyholders
for loss mitigation and has seen increased use of
Berkley One provides a customizable suite of personal
additional coverage that reimburses post-loss purchases
lines insurance solutions including home, condo/
of loss-mitigation devices. Several homeowners have
co-op, auto, liability, and collectibles to high-net-
taken advantage of that coverage by installing loss-
worth individuals and families with sophisticated risk
mitigation devices such as water shut-off devices,
management needs. Berkley One has established a
generators, backup power for sump pumps, and alarm
number of risk management and mitigation tools based
systems. Berkley One continues to provide resources for
on the philosophy that a home saved from a complete
customers seeking to take proactive steps to mitigate
loss not only saves our clients heartache but saves
loss, such as the purchase of storm shutters, through its
valuable natural resources, too. In areas of the country
network of service providers. This Business also continues
exposed to wildfire, Berkley One engages the services of
to provide a variety of other services, including blog
a private wildland fire monitoring and response provider
posts and fact sheets that provide timely advice on loss
that may take pre-suppression activities to lessen the
control; green-coverage endorsements that cover loss
threat to properties in certain instances.
to alternative-power-generating equipment and water
systems, and that provide coverage to upgrade to more
Berkley One’s risk management service uses aerial
sustainable materials in the event of a covered loss; and
imagery to view residential roofs to help determine
premium credits for greenhouses and storm-protective
their integrity for withstanding hail and other
building materials.
weather-related risks.
Berkley 2023 Sustainability Report 46
PILLAR 2: CLIMATE RISK MANAGEMENT
Investments
proprietary algorithm that tracks historical liquidity
We consider climate change in our investment strategy trends. Each security is assigned to one of the five liquidity
in an effort to reduce the likelihood of climate risks tiers, which Berkley can then actively manage to seek an
negatively affecting the investment portfolio. Examples of optimal balance. These reports are run quarterly or more
actions taken within the investment strategy to manage frequently if necessary.
the risks from climate change include:
We believe the combination of operating cash flows
• Carrying out qualitative risk assessments and and cash, cash equivalents, and short-term securities,
quantitative analysis exercises on a periodic basis to as well as the laddered maturities of our high-quality
support an understanding of the risks from climate fixed-maturity securities, should adequately address
change in the current investment portfolio our liquidity needs. We also have the option to raise
additional capital from public and private markets, if
• Seeking to limit our investments in municipal bonds needed. Our outstanding long-term indebtedness does
in areas that are most subject to catastrophic loss; not have any liquidity or rating agency covenants that
our ERM and investment teams coordinate to monitor could cause it to be called early by investors. Furthermore,
Berkley’s exposure to municipal bonds in locations our assumed reinsurance business, in general, does
we expect are most likely to experience significant not have rating agency downgrade triggers that could
catastrophes materially affect our liquidity position. Berkley also has
a $20 million credit facility, allowing for the issuance of
• Favoring utility investments in natural gas-fired
standby letters of credit on behalf of our Company and
facilities over investments in facilities that use coal
its subsidiaries. Effective April 1, 2022, we entered into a
senior unsecured revolving credit facility that provides
For further details about our approach to managing
for borrowing up to an aggregate of $300 million with a
climate risk in our investment portfolio, please refer to the
sublimit of $50 million for letters of credit.
Responsible Investing section in Pillar 3 of this report.
Liquidity Management
Liquidity is also an important consideration, especially
with respect to our ability to pay claims after a significant In order to accomplish our liquidity goals, Berkley:
catastrophe event. Our investment policy states that
portfolio holdings should be sufficiently liquid for the
timely payments of all obligations without material Targets a minimum of 5% of our assets in
impact on market values. cash, cash equivalents, and short-term
securities
Liquidity stress tests are performed with the assistance
of our asset risk management system, which splits our
fixed-maturity portfolio into various tiers based on its
Maintains a portfolio of high-quality,
fixed-maturity securities (with a current
overall portfolio average rating of AA-)
so that a significant portion matures
each year
Generates cash flow through investment
income from the asset portfolio, as well as
from operations
Maintains significant liquidity at W. R. Berkley
Corporation that can be contributed to the
insurance subsidiaries, if necessary
Berkley 2023 Sustainability Report 47
PILLAR 3
RESPONSIBILITY &
TRANSPARENCY
PILLAR-SPECIFIC SDGS:
Berkley 2023 Sustainability Report 48
PILLAR 3: RESPONSIBILITY & TRANSPARENCY
Berkley’s success over more than five decades has been underpinned by its culture of responsibility and transparency.
Strong policies underlie this culture, which has been instilled by its most senior executive officers since the Company’s
founding and is manifested daily through leadership with integrity. This section details our corporate governance, ethics
and compliance policies and practices, cybersecurity infrastructure, and responsible investing practices.
Ethics & Compliance
Guidelines, the Board seeks to undertake appropriate
succession planning for our CEO, including policies and
Governance & Business
principles for selection and performance review as well
Ethics Policies
as emergency succession. Succession and contingency
plans are also in place for W. R. Berkley Corporation’s
Throughout our history, Berkley has maintained strong
Executive Chairman. Leadership reinforcement,
corporate governance and a culture of ethics and
mandated Company-wide training, clear policies,
compliance. The W. R. Berkley Corporation Corporate
available resources, ethics, and compliance continue to
Governance Guidelines set out procedures and
serve as key components of how Berkley operates.
standards regarding functions of the Board, including
the qualifications of directors and their responsibilities,
Berkley is committed to conducting business with the
compensation, continuing education, election
highest ethical standards and in full compliance with
procedures, performance evaluation, and management
all applicable anti-corruption, anti-bribery, anti-money
succession. Pursuant to our Corporate Governance
laundering, and anti-slavery laws and regulations.
Berkley 2023 Sustainability Report 49
PILLAR 3: RESPONSIBILITY & TRANSPARENCY
Berkley Ethics Infrastructure
The Business Ethics Committee of the Board oversees
our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct (“Code”),
as well as our Company’s Statement of Business
Ethics for the Board of Directors, and is responsible
for reviewing related disclosures made by our
employees and directors. In addition, we have
established Complaint Procedures for Accounting
and Other Corporate Governance Matters, which are
available on our website.
Berkley’s Internal Audit function reviews the Code and
ethics process annually, performing the following
Employee Ethics Resources
procedures:
While W. R. Berkley Corporation’s Chief Compliance Officer
• Confirming all publicly available documents
oversees our overall ethics and compliance program,
related to ethics and compliance procedures are
adherence to the Code is the shared responsibility of
current, complete, and accurate
employees at all levels and across all geographies. Each
Business has established a Business Ethics Committee to
• Ensuring employees have completed ethics
advise on ethical questions. Our ethics and compliance
training and annual Code certification
program includes business ethics, compliance with
applicable laws and regulations, and training with • Reviewing any accounting or legal allegations
respect to anti-corruption and avoiding anti-competitive reported confidentially through a third-party
behavior. We encourage our employees to speak up hotline or Berkley’s website
about any ethical concerns they may have and to raise
such concerns using our 24-hour ethics hotline. Ethics Refer to our Code for information regarding Berkley’s
resources for our employees include a Business Ethics business practices around antitrust, fair competition,
Committee at each of our Businesses, a “no retaliation” and insurance quoting practices.
policy for those reporting unethical behavior, and an
anonymous, independently operated, multilingual
telephone hotline (“EthicsLine”). Instructions about how to
access these resources via the internet or telephone are through the EthicsLine have been reviewed, investigated,
included in the Code and communicated to employees and closed, including nine reports submitted in 2022.
through a mandatory annual review of the Code. The If a report leads to a discovery of violations of law or
EthicsLine is available 24 hours a day, seven days a Company policy, disciplinary and other appropriate
week, on an anonymous basis for all Berkley employees, actions will be taken.
contractors, customers, and suppliers worldwide to report
Corporate Governance Complaint
legal or ethical concerns.
Procedure
Reports to the EthicsLine are typically responded to
within 24 hours of receipt. They are reviewed by We have established a procedure for complaints
W. R. Berkley Corporation’s Chief Compliance Officer and regarding accounting and corporate governance
are presented to the Board, as required, on a quarterly matters. The procedure outlines the process of submitting
basis. The number of reports received by the EthicsLine is a complaint regarding allegations of legal or accounting
reported to our external auditor on a quarterly basis, and improprieties or any retaliatory acts and details how any
our external auditor has generally tested the EthicsLine complaint will be treated upon receipt by W. R. Berkley
quarterly to ensure comprehensiveness, credibility, and Corporation’s General Counsel. Berkley’s Audit Committee
compliance. Over the past three years, all reports made is regularly provided a summary of such complaints. The
complaint procedure can be viewed here.
Berkley 2023 Sustainability Report 50
PILLAR 3: RESPONSIBILITY & TRANSPARENCY
Compliance Training & Resources Tax Transparency
The success of our ethics and compliance programming We actively promote tax transparency and adherence
is demonstrated through our employees’ engagement with applicable law to ensure our compliance with the
with annual training offerings. This training serves as a tax obligations that arise in all the jurisdictions in which
reminder of our expectation that employees will conduct we conduct business. We embrace the view that value
business in an ethical manner and that we will provide is created through commercial activity, which results
resources to employees who witness a concerning ethical in the need to pay the appropriate amount of tax. As a
matter. result, we do not engage in tax-motivated transactions
that are devoid of business purpose or economic
• We mandate ethics training for all new employees. substance to achieve a lower statutory rate. Moreover, to
Covering the Code and related Berkley policies, this the extent that Berkley affiliates enter into intercompany
training sets expectations for new employees with transactions, we require that the related pricing be
respect to ethical conduct and outlines the procedures consistent with comparable arm’s-length transactions.
to raise concerns of possible violations of law or
Company policy. All employees who were onboarded Berkley complies with the SEC rules and regulations
in 2022 successfully completed ethics training. regarding external audit partner rotation requirements.
• Employees are required to complete an annual web-
based certification process regarding conflicts of
interest that is administered by a third-party training
vendor. The certification includes a series of questions
about the individual employee’s exposure to various
types of conflicts of interest (i.e., family members’
interests and outside business interests). All active and
new employees successfully completed the annual
conflict-of-interest process in 2022.
• Part-time employees are also required to complete
required training and annual certification.
• Contractors, consultants, contingent workers, and
other non-Berkley employees who have access to the
Berkley network and/or a Berkley office are required
to review and acknowledge the Acceptable Use
Policy, which affirms that they are aware of specific
standards of behavior that will apply to them when
performing work for the Company. Areas covered
by this policy include, but are not limited to, use and
protection of Company information, workplace safety
and sexual harassment, trade sanctions compliance,
and privacy.
Percentage of new employees Percentage of active employees
who have completed ethics who have completed conflict-
training: of-interest certification:
100% 100%
Berkley 2023 Sustainability Report 51
PILLAR 3: RESPONSIBILITY & TRANSPARENCY
Public Policy
Political Action Committee (“PAC”)
In the U.S., insurance is primarily regulated at the state
Political Expenditures level, although certain federal regulations also apply.
The W. R. Berkley Corporation PAC is a U.S. federal PAC
The Business Ethics Committee of the W. R. Berkley
overseen by W. R. Berkley Corporation’s Vice President
Corporation Board of Directors oversees our Political
and Treasurer, and the Senior Vice President and Chief
Spending Policy and receives regular reports on the
Compliance Officer, both of whom provide the Business
Company’s political spending activity from our Senior
Ethics Committee of the Board with periodic reports
Vice President and Chief Compliance Officer. Federal
on our political spending activity. Our PAC aggregates
law prohibits us from making campaign contributions
voluntary contributions from certain Berkley employees
to federal candidates. Over the past five years, other
and their families to donate to candidates for federal
political contributions, if any, have been negligible.
office. Information regarding donations to our PAC and its
contributions and expenditures is filed quarterly with the
Federal Elections Commission and is publicly available on
Berkley’s political expenditures
its website.
over the past year totaled less than
$1.4 million and approximately 0.02% of
our total operating costs and expenses.
On a quarterly basis, expenditures for federal, nonpartisan
political activities are reported to W. R. Berkley
Corporation’s Vice President – Federal Government
Relations, who prepares and submits the required
disclosure filings. These filings can be found on the U.S.
Senate Lobbying Disclosure website.
Federal Government Relations
Our Vice President - Federal Government Relations is
responsible for federal government affairs, including
monitoring and reporting on legal and legislative
developments that affect the property and casualty
insurance sector, and liaising with and providing support
to key industry trade associations or coalitions.
Additionally, our Businesses communicate through their
trade organizations to the NAIC, legislators, and regulators
on relevant legislative and regulatory issues.
Berkley 2023 Sustainability Report 52
PILLAR 3: RESPONSIBILITY & TRANSPARENCY
Cybersecurity
Berkley prioritizes the protection of our information Strategic Goals
technology, computer systems, corporate and customer
data, e-commerce data, email communications, Our cybersecurity program has seven strategic-level
applications software, and other elements of our goals:
information and technology assets. Trust in our
systems is essential to our business and our clients.
Cultural Uplift – Promoting our belief
Our cybersecurity program is designed to protect the
that security is the responsibility of all
confidentiality, integrity, availability, and privacy of our
employees
information systems and data. Our processes focus on
the five steps of cybersecurity set by the U.S. National
Institute of Standards and Technology (“NIST”): identify,
protect, detect, respond, and recover.
Key Leader Engagement – The act of
reaching out to key leaders to establish
Berkley’s cybersecurity program is focused on four
trusted, two-way communications and
essential components: people, processes, technology,
understanding of operations
and governance. By combining the expertise of our
people, robust processes, advanced technology, and
holistic governance, our Company seeks to respond
quickly to identified risks. Additionally, the cybersecurity
Secure by Design – The action of
team is tasked with reducing risks as discussed below.
establishing security best practices into the
foundation of all aspects of business and
technology efforts
Security & Privacy Consulting
Services – Supporting our Businesses
with activities related to security and
data privacy
Program Reporting – The capability
to provide accurate situational-
and program-level insights into the
cybersecurity program
Network Security & Resiliency – The
architecting and engineering of a
secure and resilient Berkley enterprise
network
Continual Improvement – Implementing
repeatable, automated, measurable,
and practiced processes to mature the
program and risk reduction throughout
Berkley
Berkley 2023 Sustainability Report 53
PILLAR 3: RESPONSIBILITY & TRANSPARENCY
Cybersecurity Management & Governance
Our cybersecurity functions are managed through Cybersecurity Management System
a top-down approach and overseen by senior-level
management. The Board and its committees receive Our cybersecurity management system is modeled
periodic updates on cybersecurity risks from members of on the global standard for risk assessment,
senior management, including W. R. Berkley Corporation’s International Organization for Standardization (“ISO”)
Executive Vice President – Enterprise Technology and the 27001, and incorporates relevant standards, laws,
Senior Vice President – Enterprise Risk Management. As and guidance from ISO 27002, the NIST framework,
part of the oversight of the cybersecurity program, the and the New York State Department of Financial
Berkley Insurance Company Board of Directors receives Services Part 500 (“23 NYCRR 500”) cybersecurity
an annual report from the Chief Information Security regulation, along with privacy regulations such as
Officer (“CISO”), who provides attestation evidence for 23 the General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”) and
NYCRR 500. the California Consumer Protection Act (“CCPA”).
Additionally, we track and comply with regional
Berkley’s international footprint requires global risk
regulations in accordance with local regulatory and
management under the cybersecurity program.
legal requirements.
Therefore, we have placed Regional Information Security
Officers (“RISOs”) in strategic locations around the
world. These RISOs are supported by core personnel in
the cybersecurity program. Collectively, these leaders
to manage security risk that could affect the Company
and their teams implement and manage risk reduction
or its clients, protect privacy, ensure availability of
projects and tasks with a commitment to being a
core business functions, and reduce the potential for
business enabler. The cybersecurity program endeavors
reputational harm.
Our cybersecurity team includes both regional and domain-focused leadership under Berkley’s CISO.
Functional areas include:
Security Strategy & Security Architecture Security Operations, Insider Threat and
Program Management & Engineering Incident Response, Data Protection
& Data Protection
Vulnerability Identity & Access IT Governance, Risk & Regional Information
Management Management Compliance, & Third-Party Security Management
Risk Management (United States, Asia-
Pacific, Latin America,
European Union, and the
United Kingdom)
Berkley 2023 Sustainability Report 54
PILLAR 3: RESPONSIBILITY & TRANSPARENCY
Cybersecurity Policies
directives: data loss, availability, money movement,
Our cybersecurity policies seek alignment with domestic regulatory, and reputation.
and global standards. The policy suite covers the
Our program is constantly evolving to reduce our
management structure for our program and physical
cybersecurity exposure. Processes such as security
safeguards for data centers, data protection, breach
architecture reviews, exceptions management processes,
notification, commitment to collect and process user
cloud security patterns, application penetration testing,
data for limited stated purposes and other privacy
and dynamic application testing are continually
standards, security management, communications,
reviewed and enhanced as needed, further improving
third-party data compliance, and others as required
cybersecurity awareness and reporting metrics that
by regulation. We regularly review and upgrade our
provide improved management transparency and
cybersecurity policies and standards, which are generally
program orchestration.
revised in accordance with updated compliance and
regulatory requirements and are informed by industry
Our cybersecurity management system undergoes
best practices. The policies apply to all employees and
continuous control testing in line with our assessment
contractors, and we have created training to help them
of industry best practices as well as local and regional
comply with these policies and practices.
regulatory and legal requirements, including GDPR,
Cybersecurity Defense and Risk Reduction LGPD, NIST, ISO, and CCPA. This is done largely using
self-attestation and self-analysis to validate Businesses’
In protecting our information and customer data, ability to comply with policies, procedures, standards, and
we draw on several lines of defense: our employees, regulatory requirements. Additionally, in accordance with
our cybersecurity program, and our internal audit regulations, we use external vendors to conduct periodic
program. Holistically, these lines of defense work to penetration testing where appropriate.
reduce cybersecurity risk around our core risk reduction
Annual Required Enterprise-Wide Training
Introduction to Spear Phishing Global Privacy and New Employee Protecting
Phishing Threats Data Protection Our Information*
*Completed at the start
of employment only
100% 100%
completion rate for Protecting
completion rate for
Our Information during the
annual training
calendar year 2022
Berkley 2023 Sustainability Report 55
PILLAR 3: RESPONSIBILITY & TRANSPARENCY
Monitoring & Responding to Data Breaches
and due diligence activities. The program addresses
We deploy tools and technologies to help detect, prevent, cybersecurity and data privacy risks, as well as
and mitigate threats and cyberattacks. We continually compliance with the GDPR, 23 NYCRR 500, CCPA, Brazil’s
improve these tools, technologies, and processes in Lei Geral de Proteção de Dados Pessoais (“LGPD”), and
an effort to reduce risk, decrease response time, and other regulatory requirements. The team works closely
improve the efficacy of actions and fidelity of threat data. with all Berkley businesses and in conjunction with
procurement, legal, and compliance teams.
We participate in information sharing networks, such as
Data Privacy Program
the Financial Services Information Sharing and Analysis
Center (“FS-ISAC”), and subscribe to threat intelligence Berkley’s data privacy program has created a process
services to monitor dark web activity and internet threats that our Businesses apply to several regulations that
that could affect our data or sensitive information. require continuous control testing. The foundations of
our privacy programs are based on the GDPR, CCPA,
We also track industry and government intelligence
the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (“GLBA”), and LGPD. Our
sources for impact in the marketplace and deploy
common framework is designed to create consistency
updates as necessary. Additionally, we monitor new
by leveraging the most effective practices. The GDPR,
laws and regulations for potential impact to Berkley
CCPA, and LGPD require companies to have a process
operations, and we will continue to revise our controls
through which individuals can request access to their
as needed.
personal data to understand what has been collected,
Third-Party Risk Assessment how it is being used, and with whom it has been shared.
Individuals can request that their personal data be
Our Third-Party Risk Management program focuses on
removed from our Company’s systems within a defined
cybersecurity risk management associated with the use
time frame and subject to certain exceptions.
of third parties, including third-party risk assessment
Berkley 2023 Sustainability Report 56
PILLAR 3: RESPONSIBILITY & TRANSPARENCY
Responsible Investing
Responsible Investing Highlights
W. R. Berkley Corporation’s Board of Directors and
senior management believe investing responsibly can
>99% $312M
strengthen our Company while protecting shareholders
and policyholders from elevated risk levels that are not
aligned with our values.
Investments in our Market value of
We believe that integrating ESG considerations into our
portfolio that satisfy our sustainable bond
investment process can improve our long-term, risk-
ESG criteria investments as of
adjusted returns by helping us actively understand and
December 31, 2022
manage risks. Our investment group includes a team that
focuses on responsible investing. This team is dedicated
to continual education on ESG and climate initiatives.
These skills are used to analyze our investments through
During 2022, we grew our sustainable
a sustainable lens.
bond portfolio by more than 20% to
This section discusses our investment policies, allocation
of assets, and ESG sector investments, as well as risk $312 million. We expect to continue
management processes.
to look for opportunities to increase
our sustainable investment portfolio.
Management & Governance of Responsible Investing
The Board engages with our senior leadership team, including W. R. Berkley Corporationʼs Executive Vice President –
Investments, on a periodic basis regarding risks pertaining to investments. In addition, the Board for each statutory
insurance company reviews all investment transactions on a quarterly basis.
Our internal investment policy has three To fulfill these goals, we maintain
primary objectives: two strategies:
Maximizing long-term, risk-adjusted, after- A core fixed-maturity portfolio consisting of
tax total returns for the investment portfolio, high-quality, liquid securities designed to
while prioritizing preserving capital and satisfy the funding of insurance reserves
keeping volatility low
An opportunistic, non-fixed-maturity
Avoiding investment exposures that might investment portfolio designed to provide
impair our ability to expand our Business non-correlated and favorable long-term,
risk-adjusted total returns
Providing sufficient liquidity for the timely
payment of insurance claims
Berkley 2023 Sustainability Report 57
PILLAR 3: RESPONSIBILITY & TRANSPARENCY
Our investment policy provides parameters for credit short-term benefits for our investors, policyholders, and
quality, requiring that 90% of our fixed-maturity other stakeholders.
investments be rated as “investment grade” or higher by
major credit rating agencies. Since the major third-party In addition, our investment personnel are responsible for
rating agencies—such as Fitch, Moody’s, S&P, DBRS, and analyzing and reporting on ESG issues in our investment
Kroll—screen for ESG issues, their ratings may help us portfolio. Our investment management team provides a
avoid investing in companies that have been negatively quarterly risk report to the ERM Committee, which includes
affected by ESG risk. We view ESG factors as additional the results of scenario analyses that consider ESG issues.
attributes to better understand the risk profile of our
Detecting & Excluding ESG Risks
investments.
We assess investment risk using both internal analysis
Investment Decision-Making with ESG
and external research. We use third-party risk
management systems and platforms that contain
Incorporating ESG attributes and performance criteria
ESG analysis and tools to manage ESG risks. These
into our investment analysis and decision-making
various platforms and tools also provide white papers
process makes economic sense by potentially reducing
on ESG issues, such as climate risk, which contribute
downside risks and improving overall risk-return profiles.
to the ongoing education of our analysts and portfolio
In 2022, more than 99% of our portfolio comprised
managers. These ratings, tools, and reports, in
investments that satisfy our ESG exclusionary criteria.
conjunction with our independent research and analysis,
Our strategies and practices for responsible investing are used to factor ESG issues into Berkley’s investment
are constantly evolving as we consider, among other decisions. In addition, in one jurisdiction we are continuing
things, ESG-related changes in the investment markets. to pilot a tool that provides estimates of environmental,
Our internal investment manager is guided by Berkley’s social, governance, carbon emissions footprint, transition
investment policy and subsidiaries’ individual investment risk, and physical risk management scores for a large
policies, and considers ESG, along with many other number of companies, including small and medium-sized
issues, in investment decisions. Specifically, 99% of our enterprises. This tool delivers globally comparable and
assets under management are evaluated against our standardized scores based on company size, industry,
ESG criteria. Such considerations may improve our and location, enabling a full portfolio risk assessment.
performance over the long term, with some important These ESG-focused ratings, data, and analytics can then
be integrated with traditional investment analytics.
Berkley 2023 Sustainability Report 58
PILLAR 3: RESPONSIBILITY & TRANSPARENCY
Screening In 2022, we declined to invest in
Screening is a well-established investigative measure
certain utilities with a dependence
to evaluate responsible investments. It can help us
avoid or minimize investments in industries we view as on coal, even though they met
having higher risk profiles, including the risk of becoming
stranded assets due to changes in societal views in our other credit and yield criteria,
sectors such as weapons, tobacco, oil, gas, and coal.
because of concerns about
If a screen detects ESG risk, the opportunity is assessed
concentration in this energy source
further and may be declined on ESG grounds or pursued
subject to ESG risks being measured, managed, and and the potential for poor liquidity
mitigated in a timely manner.
and mark-to-market issues.
We maintain an “exclusion list” that currently • Target certain investments in renewable energy
addresses the following ESG criteria: infrastructure and sustainable bonds
• Screen for investments in utility companies that
Environmental: Companies that generate generate 30% or more of their revenues from the use
more than 30% of their revenue from the
of thermal coal
use of thermal coal
• Seek opportunities to expand on our property
portfolio’s environmental- and sustainability-related
certifications (e.g., LEED-certified buildings)
Social: Companies associated with or
producing banned weapons Our sustainable bond portfolio grew by more than 20%
in 2022 after growing 67% in 2021, more than 70% in
2020, and 100% in 2019. At year-end 2022, investments
in utilities with greater than 30% exposure to thermal
Governance: Countries identified by the coal represented approximately 0.5% of our cash and
Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”) investments.
of the U.S. Treasury Department
Our investment policies are designed to comply with
all applicable laws and regulations including, but not
limited to, anti-corruption, anti-bribery, anti-money
laundering, and anti-slavery.
Focus on Low-Carbon Investing
The transition to a lower-carbon
economy is a good example of a
situation in which we consider ESG risks. Preparing for
this global shift is part of our strategy to avoid holding
investments that may become stranded assets. As we
seek to position our Company to thrive in a low-carbon
economy, we have set three objectives to advance our
shift to low-carbon investing:
Berkley 2023 Sustainability Report 59
PILLAR 3: RESPONSIBILITY & TRANSPARENCY
Impact Investing
Fixed-Maturity Investments At 12/31/2022
In addition to achieving appropriate in Select Sustainable Sectors ($ in millions)
long-term, risk-adjusted returns, our
investments support many environmental and social Hospital $120
improvements for society. For example, we invest in
municipal bonds that support water and sewer, waste,
Housing $203
pollution, industrial development (“IDB”), pollution control
revenue (“PCR”), and resource recovery projects, which
help mitigate pollution, provide safe drinking water, Power $187
promote conservation, and in many cases respond to
changing climate conditions. Housing bonds provide
School or University $333
funding for multifamily or single-family housing projects,
often for the low-income sector, while transportation
bonds support our country’s infrastructure by improving Transportation $322
toll roads, bridges, and tunnels. Additionally, our
investments in secondary and higher education support
Water & Sewer $87
enterprises directly involved in improving communities
and the lives of their students. We also maintain Waste, Pollution, IDB & PCR, or
investments in low-income housing tax credits, which Resource Recovery $58
support construction of affordable housing, as well as in
other sustainable bonds.
Berkley 2023 Sustainability Report 60
PILLAR 3: RESPONSIBILITY & TRANSPARENCY
Examples of our impact investing within certain asset
classes include:
Environmentally Certified Real Estate
We invest in properties with environmentally responsible
features and credentials. Investing in such buildings
makes good business sense because LEED-certified
buildings have lower vacancy rates than non-green
properties and lease-up rates of up to 20% above
average.
Investing in Properties with
Environmental Certifications
2018, from $184 million to $149 million at year-end 2022.
We made an investment in an energy company that
uses steam-assisted gravity drainage (powered by
natural gas), rather than in a similar company that uses
Building City Certification
mining for extraction because of the additional energy
(and therefore cost) required for the mining venture. In
the securities markets, we have made an investment in
ENERGY STAR®
Office Complex New York City securitized wind turbines in accordance with our belief
rating: 87
that they will generate sufficient revenue to service
their debt with ample margins and to provide a level of
diversification from other asset-backed investments.
Mixed-Use
Washington, D.C. LEED Platinum Housing for Low-Income Families
Project
We participate actively in a federal program
that encourages private-equity investment in
affordable rental housing for low-income households
in inner-city and rural locations in the United States.
Clean Utilities
We have invested $93 million in low-income housing
As part of aligning Berkley’s fixed-maturity investments securities and other state-level job retention and
and overall investment portfolio with a low-carbon tax credit securities. Through these investments, we
economy, we favor low-carbon utility investments over are helping reduce poverty and inequality, providing
those that use coal. Our investment funds with exposure affordable housing, and supporting economic
to the oil and gas industry have declined by 19% since development in underserved areas through job creation.
Details of our investment portfolio by asset class are included in our quarterly financial statements.
Other than with respect to the use of trading account securities, we do not make use of derivatives.
As of December 31, 2022, the fair value of options contracts outstanding was negligible, and we had
no securities lending collateral assets.
Berkley 2023 Sustainability Report 61
APPENDICES
Berkley 2023 Sustainability Report 62
APPENDICES
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (“TCFD”) Index
Topic Description Item Corresponding Section
Governance Discloses the a) Describes the Board’s oversight of Governance & How We
organization’s climate-related risks and opportunities Operate, Page 13
governance around
b) Describes management’s role in Governance & How We
climate- related risks
assessing and managing climate-related Operate, Page 13
and opportunities
risks and opportunities
Strategy Discloses the actual a) Describes the climate-related risks Climate Change Risks &
and potential impacts and opportunities the organization has Opportunities, Pages 36-
of climate-related identified over the short, medium, and long 42; Focus on Low-Carbon
risks and opportunities term Investing, Page 59; Impact
on the organization’s Investing, Pages 60-61
Businesses, strategy,
b) Describes the impact of climate- Page 32; Climate Change
and financial planning
related risks and opportunities on the Risks & Opportunities, Page 36
organization’s Businesses, strategy, and
financial planning
c) Describes the resilience of the Does not currently appear
organization’s strategy, taking into within the report
consideration different climate-related
scenarios, including a 2°C or lower
scenario
Risk Discloses how the a) Describes the organization’s processes Risk Assessment & Modeling,
Management organization identifies, for identifying and assessing climate- Pages 33-35
assesses, and related risks
manages climate-
b) Describes the organization’s processes Addressing Identified Climate
related risks
for managing climate-related risks Related Risk, Page 44
c) Describes how processes for identifying, Governance & How We
assessing, and managing climate-related Operate, Page 13; Page 32;
risks are integrated into the organization’s Qualitative Risk Assessment,
overall risk management Pages 32-33; Catastrophe
Risk Management & Modeling,
Pages 34-35
Metrics & Discloses the metrics a) Disclose the metrics used by the Risk Assessment & Modeling,
Targets and targets used to organization to assess climate-related Pages 33-35
assess and manage risks and opportunities in line with its
relevant climate- strategy and risk management process
related risks and
b) Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2, and, if GHG Emissions, Page 39
opportunities
appropriate, Scope 3 greenhouse gas
(“GHG”) emissions and related risks
c) Describes the targets used by the No targets set by Berkley at
organization to manage climate-related this time
risks and opportunities and performance
against targets
Berkley 2023 Sustainability Report 63
APPENDICES
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (“SASB”) Metrics
SASB
Topic SASB Requested Metric(s) W. R. Berkley Response
Code(s)
Transparent FN-IN-270a.1 Total amount of monetary losses as a result of Customers, Page 25
Information & legal proceedings associated with the marketing
Fair Advice for and communication of insurance product-related
Customers information to new and returning customers
FN-IN-270a.2 Complaints-to-claims ratio Customers, Page 25
FN-IN-270a.3 Customer retention rate Customers, Page 25
FN-IN-270a.4 Description of approach to informing customers Customers, Page 25
about products
Incorporation FN-IN-410a.1 Total invested assets by industry and asset class Page 61
of ESG Factors
in Investment
Management FN-IN-410a.2 Description of approach to incorporation of ESG Investment Decision-Making with
factors in investment management processes ESG, Pages 58-59
and strategies
Policies FN-IN-410b.1 Net premiums written related to energy efficiency Climate Change Opportunities,
Designed to and low-carbon technology Pages 41-42
Incentivize
Responsible FN-IN-410b.2 Discussion of products and/or product Responsible Product Offerings,
Behavior features that incentivize health, safety, and/ Page 26; Climate Change
or environmentally responsible actions and/or Opportunities, Pages 41-42;
behaviors Loss Control and Loss Control &
Education, Pages 45-46
Environmental FN-IN-450a.1 Probable Maximum Loss (“PML”) of insured Not disclosed at this time
Risk Exposure products from weather-related natural
catastrophes
FN-IN-450a.2 Total amount of monetary losses attributable Climate Risk in Catastrophe
to insurance payouts from (1) modeled natural Modeling, Page 35
catastrophes and (2) non-modeled natural
catastrophes by type of event and geographic
segment (net and gross of reinsurance)
FN-IN-450a.3 Description of approach to incorporation of 1) Underwriting Risk,
environmental risks into (1) the underwriting Page 32; Climate Change Risk
process for individual contracts and (2) the Management & Mitigation, Pages
management of firm-level risks and capital 43-44
adequacy
2) Catastrophe Risk Management
& Modeling, Page 34
Berkley 2023 Sustainability Report 64
APPENDICES
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (“SASB”) Metrics (cont.)
Topic SASB Code(s) SASB Requested Metric(s) W. R. Berkley Response
Systemic Risk FN-IN-550a.1 Exposure to derivative instruments by category Page 61
Management
FN-IN-550a.2 Total fair value of securities lending collateral Page 61
assets
FN-IN-550a.3 Description of approach to managing capital and Liquidity Management,
liquidity-related risks associated with systemic Page 47
non-insurance activities
Activity Metric Code Metric
Number of policies FN-IN-000.A Approximately 1.4 million property and casualty policies in force as of
in force, by segment: December 31, 2022
(1) Property &
Casualty, (2) Life,
and (3) Assumed
Reinsurance
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (“UN SDG”) Priority Mapping
Our Strategic Priorities Key Focus Areas Sustainable Development Goals Alignment
Pillar 1: Human Capital & Human Capital
Community Management &
Governance
Diversity, Inclusion,
& Belonging
Employee
Well-Being
Community
Impact
Berkley 2023 Sustainability Report 65
APPENDICES
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (“UN SDG”) Priority Mapping (cont.)
Our Strategic Priorities Key Focus Areas Sustainable Development Goals Alignment
Pillar 2: Climate Risk Risk Assessment
Management Modeling
Climate
Change Risks &
Opportunities
Climate Change
Risk Management
& Mitigation
Pillar 3: Responsibility & Ethics &
Transparency Compliance
Cybersecurity
Responsible
Investing
Berkley 2023 Sustainability Report 66
THANK YOU
Berkley is pleased to voluntarily share this Sustainability Report describing its
Environmental, Social, and Governance ("ESG") practices. This Sustainability
Report is provided for informational purposes only, and Berkley disclaims any duty
or obligation to update such information. Given the nature of the material and the
methods used in gathering such material for this Sustainability Report, no warranty
or representation is made as to its accuracy or completeness.
© Copyright 2023 W. R. Berkley Corporation. All rights reserved.
