2023
Enabling Healthy
Communities
Environmental, Social and
Governance (ESG) Report
#WeAreWBA
2233__1111 WWBBAA EESSGG FFrroonntt CCoovveerr CCoonncceepptt..iinndddd 11 0055//0011//22002244 1155::2211
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
PAGE 20 PAGE 56
PAGE 97 PAGE 29 PAGE 70 PAGE 83
Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc. OVERVIEW HEALTHY COMMUNITIES SUSTAINABLE
("Walgreens Boots Alliance" or MARKETPLACE
About This Report 3 A Letter From Alethia Jackson 30
"WBA” or the "Company") is an A Message to Our Stakeholders 4 Health Access and Awareness 31 A Letter From Rajnish Kapur 84
integrated healthcare, pharmacy Q&A With Our ESG Committee Chair 5 Partnerships for Good 42 Our Owned Brands 85
and retail leader with a long-standing Our Purpose, Vision and Values 6 Corporate Donations Responsible Sourcing 88
heritage of caring for customers At a Glance 6 and Supporting Causes 46 Sustainable Materials 91
and patients. Fiscal 2023 Achievements Information and Education 52 Sustainable Packaging 94
and Recognition 7
References in this Environmental, Social Our Approach to ESG 9
HEALTHY AND APPENDIX
and Governance Report ("ESG Report" or ESG Materiality 11
INCLUSIVE WORKPLACE
"Report") to the "Company," “WBA,” “we,” Commitments and Progress 14 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index 98
“us,” or “our” refer to Walgreens Boots Stakeholder Engagement 16 A Letter From Sal Venegas 57 Sustainable Accounting
Alliance, Inc. and and its subsidiaries, and Employee Health, Safety and Well-being 58 Standards Board (SASB) Index 110
in each case do not include unconsolidated Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) 61 Task Force on Climate-Related
minority-owned entities and majority-owned GOVERNANCE Employee Engagement and Development 68 Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Response 111
subsidiaries acquired during the fiscal year.
Corporate Governance United Nations Global Compact
and Risk Management 22 (UNGC) Index 116
HEALTHY PLANET
Health and Safety 25 Management Assertion Table 117
Information Security 27 A Letter From Una Kent 71 Assurance Report 119
Patient and Customer Privacy 28 Energy and Emissions 72 Basis of Presentation 121
Waste and Plastics 78 Legal Notice 128
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 2
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
About This Report
Data management process
We have a company-wide approach to recording, measuring
FOR MORE ABOUT GRI 2-3, 2-5
and reporting ESG performance, including a set of reporting criteria
THIS REPORT
and a set of ESG measures and performance indicators. Across all of our
For additional information businesses, we capture data on corporate giving, carbon emissions, energy
Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc. publishes this report on an
or inquiries on this report, please use, waste by disposal method, employee retention and diversity, and use
annual basis to transparently disclose its Environmental, Social
contact us at ESG@wba.com. the data to inform and assist in the development of individual ESG programs.
and Governance ("ESG") targets and achievements. This report
In addition, in the U.S. Retail Pharmacy and U.S. Healthcare segments we
includes forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor
capture data on employee race and ethnicity, and for our owned brands we
provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. See
collect data on palm oil and packaging. In January 2023, Village Practice
cautionary note regarding forward-looking statements on page 128.
Management Company, LLC ("VillageMD") acquired WP CityMD TopCo
"(Summit Health-CityMD"), a provider of primary, specialty and urgent care.
Consistent with past acquisitions, we take one calendar year to integrate all
Reporting standards
data capture and reporting processes. As such, Summit Health-CityMD data
Our ESG Report has been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting included in this report is limited to workplace figures. All Summit Health-
Initiative ("GRI") Universal Standards. The Report also contains disclosures CityMD data will be presented in the fiscal 2024 report.
following the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board ("SASB"), and the Task
The data presented within this report reflects the operations of the
Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures ("TCFD") reporting standards
company during fiscal 2023 and was produced in accordance with the
and definitions, and this report serves as the Company's Communication of
Basis of Presentation, which can be found on pages 121-122 of this report.
Progress as a participant of the United Nations Global Compact ("UNGC").
Our Statement of Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions for fiscal 2023 and
its limited assurance from Deloitte & Touche LLP can also be found on
pages 119-120.
Reporting period
ESG performance data are collected comprehensively on an annual basis.
The reporting period covered in this report is September 1, 2022 to August 31, All submissions by individual businesses are prepared by local finance
2023, unless otherwise stated. Our fiscal year ends on August 31, and references and ESG champions and are reviewed by executives and senior finance
herein to “fiscal 2023”, “fiscal 2022”, and “fiscal 2019” refer to our fiscal years leaders. In fiscal 2016, WBA collected environmental and social data across
ended August 31, 2023, August 31, 2022, and August 31, 2019, respectively. its operations for the first time, forming the baseline for our fiscal 2017
and fiscal 2018 CSR Reports. We reset baselines for our environmental
performance metrics in fiscal 2019 because, for the first time, we included
energy and waste data from 1,932 Rite Aid stores. This was done to provide
Reporting boundaries1
meaningful comparatives as required by the GHG Protocol. While most of our
The performance and other data contained in this report focus on the environmental performance data has a 2019 baseline year, there are a few
achievements and plans of Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc. and its subsidiaries. exceptions which are clearly stated.
More on our approach to ESG reporting can be found on page 9.
Every effort is made to ensure that we report accurate data, and our
processes are designed to support this. In cases where we become aware
1 On June 1, 2021 the Company completed the sale
of updates to data from previous years, we consider providing updated data
of the majority of the Company's Alliance Healthcare
business as well as a portion of the Company’s Reporting assurance in subsequent reports if the changes result in a discrepancy that is material.
retail pharmacy international businesses in Europe In these cases, we provide details in the footnotes of our data tables.
Deloitte & Touche LLP reviewed specified indicators within this report in
(“discontinued operation”) to Cencora, Inc. (“Cencora”),
formerly known as AmerisourceBergen Corporation. accordance with attestation standards established by the American Institute of
Disclosures in this report reflect continuing operations Certified Public Accountants (AICPA). Deloitte & Touche LLP has been ratified
only. Certain prior period data, primarily related to
as our independent registered public accounting firm at our annual meeting of
discontinued operations, have been recast to conform
to the current period presentation. stockholders. Their limited assurance report can be found on pages 119-120.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 3
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
A Message to Our Stakeholders
GRI 2-3, 2-22
It is a great honor to introduce our 2023 Walgreens Boots Alliance ESG Report in this landmark year, as Boots celebrates
its 175th anniversary. It is a milestone that reinforces the vital role our incredible team plays in local communities across
the world, serving the health and well-being of our patients and consumers.
Our company’s heritage and longevity are a testament to the hundreds employer, we are focused on creating a safe and inclusive place to
of thousands of passionate people who work with us today and all of work, with competitive compensation and attractive benefits. Our work
those who, throughout our history, have made us what we are. We are to contribute to a fair and equitable world, building a truly inclusive
truly standing on the shoulders of giants. culture and fostering a diverse workplace has been recognized by
the National Organization on Disability, the American Association for
It also provides us with a rich and unique opportunity to build upon
People with Disabilities, Seramount Top Companies for Executive
nearly two centuries of insight into the ever-changing needs of
Women, Stonewall, and others. We understand the need to keep
consumers and the critical role we play in providing access to trusted
up this work, as we continue to make investments that improve the
pharmacy and healthcare services in the communities we serve and
prospects and environment for our people and our consumers.
beyond. At a moment when, across the globe, we face significant
challenges, we have never been more confident that our commitment We cannot achieve this alone, and indeed, our unwavering commitment
to people and the planet will help us show up to meet, and exceed, the to the United Nations Sustainable Developments Goals underscores
needs of our customers, patients, team members and communities for the power of great partnership in its 17th goal, Partnerships for the
the future. Goals. We work with many long-standing partners whose commitment
to improving healthcare support and outcomes in local communities
To succeed, we are committed to remaining agile. This provides us
with an opportunity to bring fresh leadership and insight, while not remains unwavering.
wavering from our deep-rooted commitment to healthy communities, As we take a moment to reflect on the progress we have made, we
a healthy planet, a healthy and inclusive workplace and a sustainable are focused on our legacy for the future; addressing the most urgent
marketplace. needs for our people, patients and consumers today. We look forward
In a world where topics such as climate change, affordable healthcare to working with you over this next year as we continue to build on
and cost of living impact healthcare systems, and in turn our consumers our progress, and appreciate your thoughts, feedback and ongoing
and our teams every day, we have stayed committed to addressing collaboration.
every opportunity we must improve health outcomes and overall January 24, 2024
well-being.
On climate change, our goal is clear. By 2030 we are targeting a
30 percent reduction of total Scope 1 and 2 emissions from a 2019
baseline. We will meet this by reducing our energy, waste, plastics and
other raw materials.
Stefano Pessina Tim Wentworth
Our consumers, patients and our team are all feeling the challenges
Executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer
of inflation and access to affordable healthcare. As a responsible Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc. Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 4
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Q&A With Our ESG Committee Chair
GRI 2-22
This is a significant year for WBA as Boots celebrates early pioneers of extended education for young employees. Today,
175 years while Walgreens and Farmacias Benavides are we believe that providing learning and development opportunities
for our 331,000 team members is no less essential. Since launching
123 and 107 respectively. What is the secret to this longevity?
in 2013, Walgreens University has provided training, leadership
To understand this requires us to look back at where we started. Every
development and career advancement for team members at all levels.
day, I take inspiration from the incredible people who founded our
company or who have shared their passion and vision over the years. My roots are in pharmacy, and with our experienced leaders, I am
From John Boot to Charles Walgreen, we have remained committed committed to fostering an environment for personal and professional
to providing trusted pharmacist support to bring affordable community growth for the long term.
healthcare to all.
Last year you set ambitious health equity goals.
Our vision today remains to be the leading partner in reimagining local
How have you performed?
healthcare and well-being. Our health-centered ESG strategy plays an
We introduced goals on key ESG topics including reduction of carbon
integral role in our ambition.
emissions and waste as well as driving our inclusive culture with a
At the heart of that responsibility is delivering affordable, accessible
focus on women in leadership, supplier diversity, people of color and
and quality healthcare and we have always understood the power of
people with disabilities. I am pleased to confirm that we exceeded most
partnerships to achieve this. We have many long-standing partnerships of our goals2, including a nearly 3 percentage point increase in U.S.
such as Vitamin Angels (globally and U.S.), Macmillan Cancer Support
team members identifying as having a disability and continued strong
(UK), European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer –
progress to reducing carbon emissions by 25 percent from our 2019
EORTC (Europe and beyond) and Fundación Alma (Mexico). Over the
baseline. I invite you to read more in this Report.
past eight years, we have donated $373 million1 to support the health
and well-being of the communities we serve. What does the future hold for ESG at WBA?
It is the dedication of our team members that brings these partnerships Our health-centered ESG strategy remains as relevant today as it
to life. They are on the front lines, and we thank them for their efforts. always has been. In 2023 we completed our first forward looking
double materiality assessment which, once again, reinforced our
Speaking of team members, what do you value most focus supporting the health and well-being of people, patients and
about their contribution? customers, communities and planet. It is my continued pleasure to
Chair the WBA ESG Committee and I would like to thank the WBA
Our people make us who we are: the service we give, the products
Board, my fellow committee members, our teams and our incredible
we make, the positive impact we have; it is their desire to innovate and
partners around the world for their unwavering commitment.
imagine the future that ensures we continue to move forward. Take,
for example, our brands Liz Earle, Soap & Glory and 17 which have all
achieved Cruelty Free International Leaping Bunny approval, and, this
year, following huge strides in packaging in 2022, No7 launched its
most inclusive skin care range yet: Future Renew.
Ornella Barra
Creating a culture where innovation thrives has always been in our
Chief Operating Officer, International and Chair of
DNA; in 1934 Boots introduced the five-day working week and were the Environmental, Social and Governance Committee
1Cash and Non-cash valuation of community contributions. Further details on page 46. 2U.S. People of color goal partially achieved.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 5
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Our Purpose, Vision and Values
GRI 2-22
At a Glance1
OUR PURPOSE
More joyful lives through better health GRI 2-1, 2-2, 2-6, 3-3, 201-1
OUR VISION
Headquartered in More than A presence in
To be the leading partner in reimagining
Deerfield, Illinois 331,000 employees nine countries
local healthcare and well-being for all.
OUR VALUES AND BEHAVIORS
Walgreens Boots Alliance takes seriously its aim of more 1 manufacturing facility,
joyful lives through better health, reflected in our core values: Approximately 13,000 53 distribution centers,
Sales of $139.1 billion
stores and pharmacy 10 micro-fulfillment centers,
in fiscal 2023
locations globally 1 prescription mail service facility
and 50 principal office facilities
Walgreens Boots Alliance is an integrated healthcare, pharmacy and retail leader serving millions
COURAGEOUS CONNECTED
of customers and patients every day, with a long-standing heritage of caring for communities. A trusted,
Challenging the status Reflecting the communities global innovator in retail pharmacy with approximately 13,000 locations across the United States,
quo, addressing conflict we serve, understanding
Europe and Latin America, WBA plays a critical role in the healthcare ecosystem.
directly and driving the needs of others and
informed risk-taking innovating together
The Company is reimagining local healthcare and on healthcare includes expanding services across
well-being for all as part of its purpose – to create more primary, multi-specialty and urgent care providers
joyful lives through better health. WBA is going beyond serving patients in traditional clinic settings, in
pharmacy to coordinate with health plans and health patients’ homes and virtual platforms.
systems, as well as with providers to engage patients
The Company operates in three reportable segments:
in underserved communities to help improve the quality
U.S. Retail Pharmacy, International and U.S. Healthcare.
of care and outcomes, while also lowering overall costs. Our retail and business brands include retail drugstores
The Company offers a connected healthcare experience Walgreens, Boots, Duane Reade and Benavides and
COMMITTED CURIOUS
that can help drive better outcomes within communities, product brands include No7, Soap & Glory, Free &
Leading with integrity, Continuously learning and as it continues to accelerate the shift to value-based Pure, NICE!, Liz Earle, Botanics, Sleek MakeUP and
building on our legacy adapting, following the science care, which prioritizes the quality of patient care over YourGoodSkin. For more on WBA owned brands
and striving boldly and the data and creating the quantity of services provided. Our deepened focus see page 85.
toward the future paths where none existed
1As of August 31, 2023. On October 31, 2023, the Company completed the sale of Farmacias Ahumada business in Chile.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 6
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Fiscal 2023 Achievements and Recognition
GRI 3-3, 413-1
Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace
Helping communities thrive by improving the health of our neighbors is at the heart of When we can be our full selves at work, we create an environment that is welcoming
WBA. Whether we are investing in programs to support people living with health conditions and inclusive. Throughout WBA’s history, we have worked to ensure our team members
or addressing availability of vaccines, vitamins or mental health services, we understand feel supported and celebrated, knowing our strength as a business lies with our people.
that it takes advocacy, collaboration and leadership to build healthy communities.
In fiscal 2023, our partnership with Vitamin Angels Over the past eight years, WBA has donated Award winning DEI strategy -
achieved a major milestone celebrating 10 years $373 million1 to support the health and well- Disability:IN recognized Walgreens
of partnership and reaching over 400 million being of the communities we serve as its 'Employer of the Year'
women and children with life-changing vitamins
Page 46 Page 61 Boots UK and No7 Beauty Company continued
Page 48 their focus on supporting people through
Boots Soltan brand menopause by becoming the first health and
no longer produces beauty company to receive a menopause-
Boots has
sunscreen with SPF friendly employer accreditation
In fiscal 2023 WBA introduced
completed under 30 for adults Since the inception Health Equity goals for People Page 59
over 100,000 to encourage sun of our partnership
In its 14-year of Color, Women in Leadership
appointments for safety as part of with The Hygiene
partnership, Boots and individuals with disabilities,
the NHS research our longstanding Bank, Boots & No7
UK and Macmillan committing to achieving more
program Our Future partnership with Beauty Company
Cancer Support equitable representation throughout
Health which aims to Macmillan Cancer have donated over
have raised the organization
develop new ways Support 1.5 million products
almost £22 million
to prevent, detect to over 700 Page 61
($26,739,000) Page 49
and treat diseases donation locations
Page 49 across the UK
Page 36 The Prince's WBA once
Page 50 Trust again achieved
partnership Bronze status
In fiscal 2023, Boots Ireland raised Walgreens with Boots UK in the Stonewall
Walgreens Over 400 funds for 340 nights has engaged has supported Equality Index and
distributed flu shot Walgreens locations of care ($135,000) 200,000 over 500 young Boots placed 139th
vouchers worth over offered free HIV for the Irish Cancer students through Across WBA, Business Resource Groups people through in the Stonewall
$1.8 million to bring testing on National Society Night Expressions since (BRG) continue to flourish. More than 6,200 employability Workplace Equality
our total since 2019 HIV Testing Day Nursing service for the program employees have joined at least one of our 24 programs since Index (UK) for
to $8.6 million on June 27, 2023 2023 Daffodil Day began in 2009 BRGs. We recently introduced two new groups its inception LGBTQ+ inclusion
Page 39 Page 36 Page 50 Page 53 Page 67 Page 49 Page 61
1Cash and Non-cash valuation of community contributions. Further details on page 46.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 7
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Fiscal 2023 Achievements and Recognition
GRI 3-3, 413-1
Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace
The climate crisis is also a health crisis, presenting even greater challenges for the health WBA expects products are produced in responsible ways and has the same expectations for
and well-being of our communities. As leaders in our industry, WBA remains committed our suppliers. As our products have grown over the years, we continue to use our influence
to meeting our reduction targets for emissions, waste and plastic and expanding efforts to prioritize sustainability and fair labor practices in their production. WBA’s goals help keep
around recycling and awareness of our impacts. us and our supplier partners accountable and we are encouraged by our shared progress.
Boots no longer sells wet wipes WBA continued to grow and expand
made with plastic fibers. In fiscal supplier participation in our online sustainability
2023, Boots sold over 800 million assessment tool THESIS growing by 68% for
wipes from 140 product lines owned brands. Suppliers engaging with the
Following the introduction of Health Equity Boots Thailand Recycle at Boots
across its skincare, baby, tissue and tool now represent over $1.3B cost of goods
Goals in the first year, WBA globally met its changed from scheme expanded
health care ranges and is actively
targets which include targets associated offering plastic into Republic of Page 88
supporting a UK ban on plastic wipes
with waste and emissions to paper carrier Ireland with a
Page 70 bags in stores further 50 store Page 82 WBA reported out to Roundtable on Sustainable
locations Palm Oil (RSPO) as an entire organization for
Page 82
the first time. Boots and No7 Beauty Company
Page 82
Walgreens Boots owned- exceeded 80% physically certified RSPO palm
exceeded its brand cotton oil in their owned brand products
target of spending wool products
Page 92
In fiscal 2023, the Environmental Protection In fiscal 2023 WBA reduced Scope $700 million with are now Global
Agency (EPA) again named Walgreen Oshkosh1 CO 2 1 and 2 carbon emission by 3.7%, diverse Tier 1 Organic Textiles
a SmartWay High Performer bringing our reduction to 25% suppliers in the Standard The 17. brand has joined Liz Earle,
Botanics, A Little Something and
Page 77 compared with our 2019 baseline. U.S. by $26 million (GOTS) certified
Soap & Glory in achieving Cruelty
This represents over 80% completion Page 90 Page 93
Free International Leaping Bunny
of our goal of 30% reduction by 2030
approval
Page 75
Page 91
Liz Earle Beauty
Co and the World
No7 Beauty Wildlife Fund Expanded Boots and No7 Beauty Company
Boots UK reduced food waste by Company launched (WWF) created owned-product categories made from recycled
36%, keeping Boots UK on track with its most inclusive a three-year or natural materials, including reusable makeup
Boots Ireland achieved zero waste to landfill the goal to reduce food waste by skincare brand partnership to remover pads, cleansing pads, reusable baby
for the second consecutive year 50% by 2030 yet: Future Renew restore biodiversity wipes, lipsticks, compacts and Botaniq eyewear
Page 80 Page 80 Page 95 Page 87 Page 94
1Walgreen Oshkosh is a subsidiary of Walgreens.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 8
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Our Approach
At WBA, our health-centered ESG strategy is concentrated on four focus areas: Healthy Communities, Healthy and Inclusive Workplace,
Healthy Planet and Sustainable Marketplace. All of our ESG efforts are embedded in our broader business strategy and are at the center
to ESG of our corporate vision to be the leading partner in reimagining local healthcare and well-being for all.
Our drive to deliver healthcare and support for local and global communities as well as updating our ESG programs to reflect the changing needs
GRI 2-5, 3-3
stems from our business values and is evidenced through our day-to-day of global communities. As demand for sustainable products continues
operations. These essential commitments shape our approach to ESG, which to grow, we have expanded our goals across No7 Beauty Company and
A healthy and inclusive is central to fulfilling our purpose to help people live more joyful lives through within owned brands to reduce negative impacts on the planet and improve
better health. Healthcare is at the center of our ESG framework, reflecting our our responsible sourcing practices. More information on this can be found
planet for all
operations and our corporate vision to be the leading partner in reimagining in the Sustainable Marketplace section of the report.
local healthcare and well-being for all. Our corporate responsibility efforts are
Our ESG strategy includes permanent, ongoing consultations with a
embedded in our business strategy, which includes commitments to serve
range of stakeholders who have joined us in agreement that we can have
the needs of every community and create greater access to care. WBA
a profound impact on the world by working to improve health access and
operates a fast-changing global business that continues to affect the
affordability, with a particular emphasis on health equity. We are increasingly
health and social landscape.
aware of the links between the environment, climate change, equity and
We continue to provide essential products and services while remaining health. Our sustainability targets on emissions and plastics support
diligent in our responsibility to keep our people and customers safe, a healthy planet and healthy communities.
Improving health equity Reducing the
Healthy and societal well-being environmental impact of our Healthy
business, including waste,
Communities Planet
emissions and plastics
Joyful lives,
Better health
Creating a DEI-centered Providing quality, safe
Healthy culture and positive products and services to Sustainable
and Inclusive workplace environment that our customers with a focus Marketplace
supports the health and well- on traceability, transparency
Workplace
being of our team members and ethical sourcing
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 9
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Our approach to reporting
Boundaries for information presented
GRI 2-5
within this report are evaluated based
on the location and level of impact
WBA continues to enhance the transparency and credibility
WBA has on each ESG material topic.
Details on the boundary for each topic of its ESG disclosures using widely accepted sustainability
can be found in the relevant sections reporting standards that provide confidence in our ongoing
of the report. corporate responsibility efforts and progress.
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)
Consistent with past reports, our fiscal 2023 report has been prepared
in accordance with the GRI Universal Standards.
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB)
This is our fourth year reporting against the SASB Standards, and
our second since SASB was made part of the International Sustainability
Standards Board (ISSB) of the IFRS Foundation. We disclose metrics as
part of the drug retailers industry, which includes companies that operate
retail pharmacies and distribution centers that supply retail stores.
Task Force for Climate-Related Disclosure (TCFD)
We report in alignment with the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial
Disclosures (TCFD) recommendations. To meet these guidelines, we are
actively analyzing scenarios to identify and assess climate-related risks
and opportunities, as well as evolving our governance, strategy, risk
management, metrics, and targets accordingly.
United Nations Global Compact (UNGC)
WBA is a participant in the UNGC, a voluntary leadership platform of
responsible business practices. The UNGC is a call for companies to align
their operations and strategies with 10 universally accepted principles in
the areas of human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption, and to
take action in support of goals and issues embodied in the United Nations'
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 10
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
ESG Materiality
GRI 2-25, 2-29, 3-1, 3-2, 3-3
Keeping with best practices in sustainability reporting, WBA
conducts a materiality assessment at least every three years
to understand our impacts, encourage insightful stakeholder
dialogue, inform our sustainability strategy and form the basis
for our ESG reporting. We systematically survey a range of global
stakeholders to understand the issues they see emerging over
the next decade that will potentially impact WBA and their
interaction with the Company.
This report was prepared using WBA’s 2020 materiality assessment and
includes the 2020 matrix. Our sustainability strategy during the fiscal period
was guided by the materiality assessment conducted in 2020 (see our
2021 ESG Report for topic definitions and more information).
Consistent with best practices, the 2020 assessment was reviewed at
the beginning of fiscal 2023 to ensure that the material topics outlined
represented our most significant impacts.
In response to this review, WBA conducted a new ESG materiality assessment
which was finalized at the end of fiscal 2023. It is our first materiality
assessment to consider double materiality by identifying ESG topics that are
most material from both financial and impact perspectives to our Company.
The assessment was conducted in alignment with leading market practice
from the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the European Union Corporate
Sustainability Reporting Directive (EU CSRD). The 2023 matrix will be
published in next year’s report.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 11
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 12
1sredlohekatS
ot
ecnatropmI
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Materiality matrix
The matrix at the right shows
the results of our 2021 materiality
assessment that identified the issues Access to affordable and quality healthcare
most material to the business from Reduce negative impacts of plastic 3 1
an ESG perspective. 2 Product safety
Employee health, safety and well-being 5
Responsible and
4
ethical supply chains
Healthy Communities Data privacy and security 7
Employee wages and hiring practices 14
Healthy and Inclusive Workplace 8 Waste management
6 Diversity, equity and inclusion
Healthy Planet 9 Human rights
15 Product packaging
Sustainable Marketplace
Product labeling and transparency 17
10 Prescription drug abuse
Governance and Economic
16 Environmental impacts of materials
21 Customer responsibility
Consumer health education and marketing 11
18 Cancer care and prevention
DISCOVER
Energy use and climate impacts 13 12 Community engagement and partnerships
To preview the WBA 2023 Double
29 Animal testing 19 Corporate governance
Materiality matrix visit the Report
Resources page on our website.
Healthcare antimicrobial stewardship 20 Product end-of-life
28 22 Chemical use and management
23 Supplier diversity and inclusivity
27 Geopolitical events and trends
Talent and development 26 24 Innovation and digitalization
Stakeholder transparency 25
32 30 Water consumption and use
Tobacco sales
31 Public policy practices
Moderate Priority High Very High
Significance of Walgreens Boots Alliance’s Impacts
1 Importance rankings are based on the weighted average
from four sources of stakeholder input: consumer survey
(50%), internal stakeholder survey (20%), external
stakeholder survey (20%), Datamaran inputs (10%).
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
WBA 24 Priority Topics alignment to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals
1 Access to affordable and quality healthcare
2 Product safety
3 Reduce negative impacts of plastic
4 Responsible and ethical supply chains
5 Employee health, safety and well-being
6 Diversity, equity and inclusion
7 Data privacy and security
8 Waste management
9 Human rights
10 Prescription drug abuse
11 Consumer health education and marketing
12 Community engagement and partnerships
13 Energy use and climate impacts
14 Employee wages and hiring practices
15 Product packaging
16 Environmental impacts of materials
17 Product labeling and transparency
18 Cancer care and prevention
19 Corporate governance
20 Product end-of-life
21 Customer responsibility
22 Chemical use and management
23 Supplier diversity and inclusivity
24 Innovation and digitalization
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 13
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Commitments and Progress
Our Targets Our Targets
Healthy Achieved in fiscal 2023: Healthy and In fiscal 2023:
Communities Walgreens: Raise more than $25 million Inclusive Workplace WBA International: Maintain baseline
for the Susan G. Komen and The Leukemia of women in leadership from fiscal 2023.
and Lymphoma Society. Exceeded.
Improving health equity Creating a DEI-centered
Exceeded.
and societal well-being: culture and positive
workplace environment Walgreens: Increase women in leadership by 2.1
– A specific focus on health
percentage points over previous year’s baseline.
equity addressing access that supports the health
to local, quality healthcare By fiscal 2024: and well-being of our Exceeded.
WBA: Provide 100 million vaccinations team members:
– Partnerships and investments
for children in developing countries through
that focus on creating – Ensures employees are cared Walgreens: Increase representation of people
"Get a Shot. Give a Shot." and the UN Foundation.
meaningful impact in the for as whole people and with disabilities across the Company by 0.7
health of our communities On track. provided with an opportunity percentage point over previous year’s baseline.
where they can show up as Exceeded.
their authentic selves
By fiscal 2025: – R eflects the diversity of Walgreens: Increase people of color by 0.7
perspectives, backgrounds percentage point over previous year's baseline.
WBA: Help 500 million women and children
and cultures in the communities
Partially achieved, 0.5 percentage point.
by providing vitamins and minerals through
where we live and work
Vitamin Angels.
On track.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 14
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Commitments and Progress
Our Targets Our Targets
Healthy By fiscal 2030: Sustainable Achieved in fiscal 2023:
Planet WBA: Reduce absolute Scope 1 and Scope 2 Marketplace Boots and No7 Beauty Company: Achieve 80
global carbon emissions by 30 percent, as percent certified RSPO (Roundtable on Sustainable
compared with 2019 baseline. Palm Oil) palm oil through physical certification.
Reducing the environmental Providing quality, safe
On Track. Exceeded.
impact of our business, products and services to our
including waste, emissions customers with a focus on Walgreens: Source 100 percent of palm oil
Boots UK: Reduce food waste by 50 percent
from Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO)
and plastics: traceability, transparency
from the 2015 baseline, as part of WRAP Food
certified sources, physically certified and credits.
– Continuing to reduce and Waste Reduction Roadmap. and ethical sourcing: Achieved.
optimize use of energy across On Track. – Managing the end-to-end Each following year, Walgreens aims to increase
our operations sustainable lifecycle of our the physical certified portion by 5 percent.
– Reducing the negative impacts owned brand products On Track.
of plastics and waste in our – Addressing environmental
By fiscal 2040: Walgreens: Increase spend with Tier 1 diverse
operations and seeking to and social impacts and
suppliers to $700 million, from $625 million in
increase reuse, recycling, British Retail Consortium Climate Roadmap, opportunities by increasing
fiscal 2022.
recycled content and recovery Boots UK: Support the UK's wider net zero traceability, transparency and
Exceeded.
to enable circular systems transition by collaborating with other UK retailers diversity across our suppliers
on a roadmap for the industry to achieve
and within our supply chain
complete net zero emissions by 2040, By fiscal 2025:
including net zero Scope 2 emissions Boots and No7 Beauty Company: Achieve the UK
by 2030 and Scope 1 emissions by 2035. Plastics Pact 2025 targets: 30 percent reduction
On Track. in plastic packaging compared with fiscal 2018
baseline; 100 percent of plastic packaging reusable
or recyclable by consumers; and achieve 30 percent
average recycled content across plastic packaging.
On Track.
By fiscal 2030:
Walgreens: Achieve 30 percent reduction in plastic
packaging compared with fiscal 2020 baseline; 100
percent of plastic packaging reusable or recyclable
by consumers; and achieve 30 percent average
recycled content across plastic packaging.
On Track.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 15
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Stakeholder
Nongovernmental organizations
Our relationships with nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) and long-
Engagement
GET IN TOUCH standing charity partnerships are cultivated in the areas we desire to make
We are always open to stakeholder the greatest impact: removing barriers to access and identifying social
feedback on our ESG reporting and determinants to improve health equity. Other topics we have engaged with
GRI 2-12, 2-28, 2-29, 3-1, 3-3
strategy. Substantive issues brought partners on at the national and international level include poverty, disease
to our attention by stakeholders are prevention, mental health, dementia and cancer. Through these partnerships
Engaging and collaborating with our stakeholders helps us
escalated to our ESG Committee. that often span years, and even decades, we can define areas of need and
One way to reach us is by email address the most relevant ESG issues for our Company and advance our mutual goals. Through the support of and interaction with NGOs
at ESG@wba.com. deliver products and services that make positive impacts in and charity partners, we are prioritizing our efforts on the factors where we
the communities we serve. We regularly consult with our internal can have the most positive impact.
and external stakeholders across a range of sectors, geographies Our engagement with stakeholders is done through regular surveys,
and organization types and sizes to receive their feedback on our conference participation and meetings. We met with key charity partners
strategy and performance in the areas where we have the greatest and NGOs at least quarterly in fiscal 2023. Discussions covered a range
of topics including climate impacts and reduction strategies, our supplier
impact. Each of these engagements seeks the stakeholder’s
diversity, product considerations (labeling, ingredients, transparency,
unique and valued opinion on specific areas. However, certain
safety) and community engagement and partnerships. These engagements
topics are addressed across groups given their propensity
translated to a number of actions, chief among them including a carbon
to touch every area of our business, such as: health equity; emissions reduction target, a vaccine equity initiative in the U.S. to address
healthcare costs; DEI; responsible and ethical sourcing; and vaccine hesitancy and expanded mental health training for employees
prescription drug and opioid abuse. These topics have a broad and pharmacists.
impact across all business areas, so we require all stakeholders
to provide feedback on our approach and management.
Stakeholders impacted by and who influence our business, such as
customers, stockholders and nonprofit groups, frequently approach
us with issues during our regular engagements. During fiscal 2023, we
meaningfully engaged stakeholders proactively on numerous matters for
which we can have significant impact and are aware of evolving expectations.
This proactive engagement covered topics such as health equity; vaccine
equity; plastic packaging; beauty industry sustainability; and DEI.
In the following pages (16-18) you will find the form and frequency of
engagement with key categories of stakeholders during fiscal 2023, their
expectations, matters they raised and actions we have taken to address them.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 16
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Investors and lenders Internal stakeholders
We hold frequent dialogue with investors and lenders through regular We focus on improving the health and well-being of our employees
outreach via our investor relations and governance teams, annual meetings through comprehensive benefits, inclusive culture building and opportunities
and quarterly earnings calls. We also conduct proactive outreach to our for career development. We strive to mirror the communities we serve and
financial stakeholders. Ahead of our annual meeting of stockholders, we know that the needs of our team members reflect those of their communities.
conducted robust shareholder engagement to gain insight into institutional To engage on issues that matter most, we keep an open dialogue with
investors’ view of our ESG and compensation practices and to continue to employees at all times through annual employee surveys and offer informal
strengthen the Company’s relationships with key shareholders. Discussions platforms for discussion. We also provide performance reviews and
centered around executive compensation, climate risk and transparency, development programs and hold regular listening sessions. In practice, our
leadership diversity, supplier inclusion, prescription drugs and other pressing internal engagement leads to training and upskilling, modifications to benefit
issues. A major part of these conversations focused on how we set priorities offerings and financial and mental health support. Our Business Resource
and goals, as well as identifying areas to drive impact and progress. Our Groups (BRGs) are another way we engage with internal stakeholders
engagement with these stakeholders reiterated the importance of many to directly tie back to the business. Employees can connect with others
of our existing ESG programs and strategies. having similar experiences, which fosters a sense of community and creates
additional leadership opportunities for team members to express insights
to management.
Government bodies and agencies WBA conducts twice-annual employee feedback surveys and regular
performance reviews and appraisals, in addition to quarterly town halls
Government bodies and regulatory agencies are a priority stakeholder
and regular email and bulletin board communications. These engagement
group for WBA. We frequently engage with government institutions and
methods cover topics including employee health, safety and well-being,
agencies across all levels — national, international, and local — around
and talent development and compensation practices.
affordable access and quality healthcare, transparency, prescription
drug abuse, affordability, sustainability and workforce development.
We worked closely with governments and municipalities to reach
underserved communities and address accessibility barriers. These Communities
efforts are especially crucial at a local level where our collaboration with
Our local communities are the foundation of our business; when they
municipalities gets at the heart of improving health at personal levels.
thrive, we thrive. Our ESG strategy is designed to improve societal health
and well-being while providing economic opportunities in our communities.
Our engagement with these priority stakeholders spans hundreds of
grassroot organizations, retail pharmacy operations, partnerships with
trusted institutions and intentional outreach through ESG initiatives and
media engagement. Our dialogue with these groups seeks to eliminate
barriers to access and address the needs of communities, like prescription
drug affordability and vaccine equity. Understanding the needs of and
collaborating with these stakeholders is core to our success as a business.
We rely on our communities to help us identify growth opportunities and
support one another to overcome challenges by taking our listening
exercises and engagements as seriously as possible. Our employees
are also a key pillar of our community engagement due to their dedication
to volunteering time and funding in the places where they work and live.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 17
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Suppliers Academics
Our desire for responsibility extends throughout our value chain and Our engagement with academics is primarily focused on building a stronger,
beyond. We pride ourselves on creating and building close relationships more diverse pharmacy talent pipeline. Additionally, the research done by
with suppliers and how they reflect our values. We understand the link this group is a key factor in addressing the world’s most pressing health and
between ethical behavior, sustainability and respecting human rights when well-being challenges. Whether supporting ongoing research partnerships
it comes to implementing our ESG strategy. As such, our Supplier Code of and presentations or participating in conference and roundtable speaking
Conduct clearly outlines our expectations informed by regular assessments, opportunities, our academic stakeholder engagement is critical to achieving
policies and communications. Through our Global Supplier Sustainability our ESG strategy.
Program, annual supplier conferences, regular surveys (some of which include
sustainability components), risk assessments and trainings, we routinely align
with stakeholders by sharing our ESG goals. Responsible sourcing at WBA
means collaborating with suppliers to respect and maintain human rights Media
and improve diversity, in addition to prioritizing operational sustainability.
Media plays a critical role in educating the public about health issues
Another crucial part of our engagement with suppliers is to ensure safety and communicating accurate health and science information is critical to
in the products and services we consume and sell by auditing the facilities, public health and safety. As such, we prioritize close relationships with key
policies, procedures and practices of our suppliers. We consider these quality media to properly reach customers and patients around the healthcare topics
control activities to be indicative of something more than a license to operate they need to know about. In addition to providing educational resources
— we require these standards of all our supplier partners, whether evaluated through our media contacts, these stakeholders help us tell our business
within a quarterly business review or a single interaction. story to target audiences. We are in constant communication with the media
to properly disseminate our message and understand public sentiment
through regular, proactive outreach conducted by our media and investor
relations teams, in addition to individual meetings.
Patients and customers
We maintain regular contact with our customers and patients through
purposeful stakeholder engagement and daily interactions to understand
Peers and industry groups
what they need from us. These groups provide valuable insight into
opportunities for us to foster trust while holistically serving the whole patient. We are constantly engaging with our peers and industry trade groups.
Our interactions with these groups are a dialogue that gets to the heart of Through collaborative projects, meetings and regular dialogue, individual
our purpose: creating joyful lives through better health. Engagements focus interactions and more, we discuss retail and pharmacy topics. From solving
on healthcare and service needs, front of store products, payment options industry challenges as a retailer to minimizing virgin plastics in supply chains,
and optimizing benefits from insurance providers. Through surveys, social we lean on our peers and fellow industry groups to help us move forward.
media, retail pharmacy interactions and our ESG initiatives, these groups We are collectively pushing one another to improve our sustainability, access
provide input on everything from our community partnerships to healthcare to healthcare, data privacy and security, removing barriers and more. These
accessibility and product transparency. engagements keep us accountable to one another and result in a more
successful business operation and happier customers.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 18
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Memberships and associations – American Pharmacists Association (APhA) – Irish Business and Employers Confederation and Retail Ireland (IBEC)
– American Society of Health-System Pharmacists (ASHP) – Irish Organic Association
GRI 2-28
– Beyond 34: Scaling Circularity for a Sustainable Economy – Irish Pharmacy Union
– Black Young Professionals (BYP) – National Association of Chain Drug Stores (NACDS)
WBA, its businesses, and
– British Beauty Council
employees participate in numerous – National Council for Mental Wellbeing
– British Retail Consortium (BRC)
nongovernmental and advocacy – National Association of Specialty Pharmacy
– The Business Council
organizations, industry associations, – On-Pack Recycling Label (OPRL)
organizations and networks. This – Business for Societal Impact (formerly the London Benchmarking
– Palm Oil Transparency Coalition (POTC)
Group (LBG))
collaboration is central to our corporate
– Pharmaceutical Society of Ireland (PSI)
– Business in the Community (BITC)
responsibility and ESG agenda because
– Pharmacist Advice and Support Service (PASS)
we cannot make meaningful change – Business in the Community Ireland (BITCI)
– Pharmacist Support
on our own. Select memberships – The Business Roundtable
– Pharmacy Technician Certification Board (PTCB)
and associations include: – Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP)
– Proprietary Association of Great Britain (PAGB)
– Community Pharmacy (CP) England; CP Northern Ireland; CP Scotland;
and CP Wales – Purple Tuesday
– Company Chemists Association (CCA) – RangeMe
– Cosmetic, Toiletry and Perfumery Association (CTPA) – REPAK
– Cosmetics Europe – Retail Energy Forum
– The Council for Responsible Nutrition
– Retail Excellence Ireland
– Cruelty Free International Leaping Bunny
– Retail Industry Leaders Association (RILA)
– The CSR & ESG Board
– Retailer Palm Oil Transparency Coalition
– Diversity in Retail
– R E-TURN
– EcoBeautyScore Consortium
– Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO)
– E uroCommerce
– S tonewall
– European Retailers Palm Oil Group
– Sustainable British Beauty Council (SBBC)
– Forum for the Future
– Sustainable Medicines Partnership (SMP)
– Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)
– Sustainable Packaging Coalition
– Global Organic Textiles Standard (GOTS)
– Sustainable Packaging Initiative for Cosmetics (SPICE)
– Global Shea Alliance (GSA)
– Sustainable Procurement Pledge (SPP)
– H enpicked
– The Sustainability Consortium
– H ITRUST
– United Nations Global Compact (UNGC)
– How2Recycle™
– International Federation of Pharmaceutical Wholesalers (IFPW) – U.S. Business Action to End HIV
– International Health Partners – U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) SmartWay Program
– Industry Council for Packaging and the Environment (INCPEN) – Waste and Resource Action Program (WRAP)
– Institute of Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability (ICRS) – World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF)
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 19
Governance
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Governance
The Nominating and Governance Committee oversees the ESG agenda on behalf of the board of directors (Board) and receives updates on the full range of activities
undertaken by the Company, including, but not limited to:
GRI 2-9, 2-10, 2-12, 2-13, 2-14, 2-23, 2-24, 2-26, 3-3
We are committed to transparent
Conducting a WBA-wide materiality assessment Ongoing review of ESG-related policies and publication
reporting in all aspects of our business,
at least every three years of policy statements
including around our ESG activities and
goals progress. As we continue our
transformation to a healthcare company,
we are increasingly focused on health Tracking ESG-related long-term strategic partnerships
Monitoring and benchmarking best industry ESG practices
equity and ESG. Our ESG strategy and their impact
is a key pillar of our purpose and is
overseen by the WBA ESG Committee,
which reports on a bi-annual basis to
Managing WBA’s engagement with external stakeholders Continuing limited assurance by Deloitte & Touche LLP
the WBA Nominating and Governance
and other interested parties regarding ESG-related matters for certain reported data and disclosures
Committee of the Board.
Integrating ESG processes into WBA’s broader business,
Participating regularly in various external ESG disclosure surveys
social and environmental risk management program and
reputation management priorities
Assessing the outcomes of our organization’s impact on
Ensuring WBA is taking appropriate measures to successfully
the economy, environment and people in coordination with
prioritize and implement ESG projects
the WBA ESG committee
Reporting progress against WBA Health Equity Goals quarterly
to WBA Board
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 21
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Corporate governance and risk management Our Board’s oversight extends to our ESG program. Biannually, the
Nominating and Governance Committee, made up of independent
GRI 2-9, 2-10, 2-12, 2-13, 2-14, 2-23, 2-24, 2-26, 3-3, 405-11
directors, reviews our ESG reporting policies and activities and assesses
MORE INFO
our risk management in those areas.
More information on material risks
Our commitment to strong governance and risk management
is included in WBA’s most recently The Audit Committee regularly reviews and discusses the key risks
processes is clearly prioritized. We are dedicated to continuously
filed 2023 Annual Report. identified in the Company's Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) program
looking for ways to improve these practices because they are
with leadership, their potential impact on us and our operations, and our
More information on the essential to achieving our objectives and being a responsible risk mitigation strategies and related disclosure matters. These risks may
Board’s involvement, evaluation, organization. be related to climate change, sustainability and other ESG-related matters.
compensation, tenure, gender, The Governance Risk and Compliance Committee, composed of senior
ethnicity and conflict-of-interest management, works in tandem with the Audit Committee to ensure all levels
Much of our governance work is underpinned by our health equity framework
processes can be found in the of leadership are involved in the discussion and articulation of WBA’s top
where we seek to prioritize key areas that impact health and well-being,
2024 Notice of Annual Meeting risks. We routinely evaluate our risk mitigation activities, and when risks are
especially for disproportionately impacted, underserved communities and
and Proxy Statement. identified above a certain threshold, WBA works to develop action plans
recognize the irrefutable connection between the health of people and the
with timelines and responsibilities that are monitored and reported upon
health of our planet. This is of the utmost importance to our organization and
following implementation.
has the support of leadership at all levels.
The WBA ESG Committee plays a key role in providing further oversight and
Our board of directors, comprised of a majority of independent directors, is
governance of our ESG program. This committee meets four times a year to
actively engaged in strengthening our governance practices and providing
review our ESG program, policy statements, evolving ESG-related regulations,
oversight of the Company’s strategic, operational, potential and actual
social and environmental risks and progress toward achieving our ESG goals,
risk and financial matters. This engagement enables the Board to fulfill its
including our goal to drive responsible sourcing practices throughout our
fiduciary duties to our stockholders and steer the long-term success of the
supply chain, protecting human rights and engaging with suppliers around
Company. 36 percent of the board are female and 100 percent of our board
ethical and environmental issues. Ornella Barra, Chief Operating Officer,
are over the age of 50.
International, chairs this committee. Members of this committee include
other senior executives from across our key businesses and departments
Board diversity matrix
(operations, legal, human resources, accounting, finance, public affairs and
The table below provides certain highlights of the composition of our Board communications). The WBA ESG Committee sets and approves our ESG
members as of December 8, 2023. Each of the categories listed in the table commitments and targets and oversees our progress. The committee also
below has the meaning as it is used in Nasdaq Rule 5605(f). approves the outcome of our regular assessments, annual objectives and
ESG Report. Our ESG governance was further strengthened during fiscal
2023 in our International segment when senior leaders from No7 Beauty
Board Diversity Matrix (as of December 8, 2023)
Company, Global Sourcing and International Retail came together to form
Total Number of Directors 11 the Sustainability Committee.
Female Male Non-Binary UD2 We recognize in our fiscal year 2023 Annual Report that the long-term
effects of global climate change present both physical risks (such as
Gender Identity
extreme weather conditions or rising sea levels) and transition risks (such
Directors 4 7 - -
as regulatory or technology changes), which are expected to be widespread
Demographic Background and unpredictable. We disclose more information on the actions taken
African American or Black 1 - - - stemming from the completed climate scenario analysis and identified
risks and opportunities within the TCFD Response of this report on page
Asian - 1 - -
1 Board and senior leadership diversity disclosure is GRI 405-1 111 and within our Annual Report on page 23. The Company will monitor
specified disclosure and is within the Deloitte & Touche LLP White 3 6 - -
best practices for disclosing physical and transition risk and opportunities
review scope as detailed on pages 119-120.
2UD = undisclosed LGBTQ+ 1 associated with climate change and will continue to evolve our reporting.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 22
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Policies As a community pharmacy and healthcare provider, everything we do,
everything we sell, every supplier we work with and everything in between
GRI 2-23, 2-24, 2-27, 3-3, 403-4
has a far-reaching impact. We are committed to respecting and upholding
the dignity, well-being and human rights of every individual affected by
WBA is committed to creating a clean, safe and respectful environment our business activities, including our patients and customers, employees,
for our entire value chain. We understand good governance is underpinned suppliers and local communities. This commitment applies to all Walgreens
by accessible, objective policies and clear behavior expectations that are Boots Alliance affiliates and extends to respecting all internationally
consistent throughout the organization, regardless of geography or level. recognized human rights as detailed in the United Nations Guiding Principles.
As such, we have outlined how we expect our people to behave through Our Human Rights Policy Statement is based on the International Bill
robust organization-wide and business segment-specific policies that of Human Rights and adopts the core labor standards from the United
incorporate internationally accepted human rights. These policies are Nations’ International Labor Organization. This commitment also extends
how we hold ourselves to a high standard of conduct. to fairly compensating our people. Please see page 101 for additional
information on our living wage efforts.
Our Company's policies cover a range of topics, from environmental impact
and compensation to data privacy and procurement practices. We are All of these values and more are explicitly laid out in our ESG Policy
dedicated to upholding and implementing new policies where needed Statements, which are available on our website. These statements shape
because clear guidance is a pillar of successful governance. New policies our approach to our sustainability and ESG activities and help ensure
are developed in accordance with regular due diligence that cover a range we are working the right way.
of topics, including human rights. Internal policies are reviewed at least every
two years, while external policies are reviewed annually. These documents
are made available to all relevant parties through our intranet and corporate
website, including external partners and suppliers. Functional leadership
within WBA for each of our internal policy commitments rests with designated
employees at the executive level as delegated by the Board to the WBA
Finance Committee, CEO and Global CFO, in addition to segment CFOs
and other relevant management. Each business must also have executives
at the Operating Committee level responsible for implementation and
management of all internal policies.
We require all team members to familiarize themselves and comply with
requirements of all internal policies, in addition to following our Code of
Conduct and Ethics, Ethical Trading Standards, standards for Enterprise Risk
Management Policy, Environmental, Health and Safety and all published WBA
internal controls relevant to their operational duties. We hold presentations and
training with relevant parties, as stipulated in select policies, with frequency
dependent on business and role. These accountability actions and our work
with accredited third-party auditors and extensive organizational policy library
available to relevant stakeholders are how we hold ourselves accountable.
First and foremost, we prioritize creating and encouraging a safe environment
for employees, customers, patients, contractors and suppliers across all our
business segments. We continuously work to improve our management of
health and safety guided by the WBA Health, Safety and Environmental (HSE)
Committee and WBA HSE policy. Within the WBA HSE policy, employees can
find guidance on reduction and mitigation processes, in addition to guidance
on determining corrective actions for workplace incidents and investigations.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 23
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Code of conduct and ethics
GRI 2-26, 3-3
The WBA Code of Conduct and Ethics is our compass for how we behave.
It guides us as a company, a team and individuals to make ethical decisions
that stay true to our values while abiding by the laws and regulations in the
places where we do business. We rely on our code to support us in doing
what is right in our fast-paced, dynamic environment. The code also supports
strong governance of our behaviors and our approach to ESG.
The code extends to our Board; Company officers; team members; team
members of our subsidiaries; officers and employees of any business in
which WBA or a subsidiary has a controlling interest; and parties acting on
behalf of WBA or its subsidiaries, including consultants, agents, suppliers,
intermediaries or representatives. We expect everyone at WBA to read,
understand and commit to complying with our code.
As part of our “speak up” culture, our confidential Compliance and
Ethics Hotline and online portal wba.ethicspoint.com are available for
any team member to raise concerns about inappropriate business conduct
or unethical behavior. The hotline is managed by an independent third
party and is available 24/7 in local languages.
We expect our people to behave ethically and responsibly when acting
on our behalf and as their own representative. This extends to all levels
of our organization, including our Board. Further guidance on conflicts
of interest at the Board level can be found within section 16 of the WBA
Corporate Governance Guidelines and in the 2024 Notice of Annual
Meeting and Proxy Statement.
More information on our corporate governance guidelines and the code
of conduct, including mechanisms for reporting suspected violations of the
Code of Conduct and Ethics, concerns about ethics and questions about
applying our code, can be found on our corporate website here.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 24
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Health and Safety
Annual pharmacy operations reviews include the following:
DISCOVER GRI 2-26, 3-3, 403-1, 403-2, 403-3, 403-4, 403-5, 403-6,
Please see pages 16-19 for how 403-7, 416-1, 416-2, 417-1, 417-2, 417-3
we have engaged with priority
stakeholders on health and
safety matters.
WBA is committed to creating and encouraging a safe environment
Please see page 58 for further details for employees, customers, patients, contractors and suppliers across
on employee and workplace safety.
all our business segments. We continuously work to improve our
management of health and safety guided by the WBA Health, Safety
Monitoring Processes to Processes to help
and Environmental (HSE) Committee and WBA HSE policy. Within
procedures for facilitate compliance ensure concerns
the WBA HSE policy, employees can find guidance on reduction the professional with pharmacy about pharmacy
and mitigation processes, in addition to guidance on determining qualifications for staff professional professionals’
corrective actions for workplace incidents and investigations. pharmacists and development fitness to practice
pharmacy-related requirements are referred to
employees the appropriate
regulatory body
Patient safety: Pharmacy dispensing
when required
GRI 3-3, 416-11, 417-1 by law
Dispensing and distributing pharmaceuticals is the most significant part of our
business, with 62 percent of our sales in fiscal 2023 coming from the sale and
distribution of prescription medications and pharmacy-related services. Millions
of people count on us to safely dispense medications and we deliver on that
promise everyday. Patient safety lies at the heart of our management of pharmacy Mechanisms for
operations. We strive to be the industry leader by continuously seeking ways to compliance with
minimize risks to patients in our dispensing and pharmacy services. standard operating
procedures
In fiscal 2023, we continued providing pharmacists with training on how to
across dispensing,
appropriately manage clinical considerations in patient drug therapy through
pharmacist control
our clinical decision support software. In addition, we provide our pharmacists
Compliance checks, patient Recording,
with a robust drug information library to help support their professional
with safe storage, counseling, managing and
practice decisions.
preparation, record keeping, reporting of
All WBA pharmacy dispensing businesses annually review and evaluate dispensing, management of dispensing errors,
pharmacy operations for compliance with our Pharmacy Operations Governance compounding controlled drugs and including a formal
Policy. During fiscal 2023, the WBA Patient Safety Forum continued to convene and sale narcotics, medicines review process and
representatives from all pharmacy dispensing businesses to share best practice and supply date checking, action planning
operations, facilitate a culture of openness and shared learning, and develop of medicinal quality assurance, to minimize the
innovative patient safety solutions. The forum included senior leaders and products error management risk of such errors
executives across the Company, including International Public Affairs, Pharmacy and other issues occurring
1 GRI 416-1 required disclosures are within the Deloitte Quality and Patient Safety and Ethics and Compliance, among others.
& Touche LLP review scope as detailed on pages
119-120. Additional information on patient safety can be found on the following page.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 25
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
There are also obligations on pharmacists to confirm products are sourced Product safety
via a licensed and legitimate supply chain.
GRI 3-3, 416-11, 416-2, 417-1, 417-2, 417-3
Our pharmacy systems are designed for the safe dispensing of medications.
Our standardized dispensing processes detail each step in the fulfillment
At WBA, product safety is the foundation to our commitment to our customers.
process, from receipt of prescription through consultation and dispensing
We ensure our owned brand products — spanning health, beauty, home and
of the medication. There are multiple digital safety checks, including bar
cleaning products, food, paper goods and other categories — are rigorously
code scanning, safety-enhancing automation processes and digital safety
analyzed for compliance with all applicable laws and regulations along with
alerts utilizing cutting edge technology. To help ensure patient safety, our
our own high performance, safety, and quality standards. We proactively seek
prescription labels are designed to meet both regulatory requirements
feedback on our products and services, and address those incidents that
and our internal standards. Descriptions of medications are affixed to each
don’t meet our customers’ needs, expectations and our own high standards.
prescription dispensed, and each prescription is dispensed with a patient
leaflet that informs patients of the name and use of the medication, potential Manufacturers of our owned brand products use a third-party product testing
adverse reactions, information about drug interactions, safe medication lab that we select to validate safety and quality before our products reach
disposal and other important health information. At Walgreens, this our customers and patient.
information is available in 14 languages, and additional services are We have established a multistage product testing program to ensure
available for hearing and visually impaired patients. products are tested across the full product lifecycle. Our program builds
in required and periodic testing from independent third-party laboratories
In fiscal 2023, we operated 10 microfulfillment centers supporting roughly
validating that quality, safety, compliance and applicable regulatory standards
4,000 stores. By the end of fiscal 2024, we plan to operate 14 centers to
have been satisfied, including but not limited to analytical tests (chemical /
continue driving significant efficiencies and cost savings.
composition), performance tests (durability / functionality), packaging
All WBA businesses must have documented processes in place to facilitate validation (labeling) and flammability standards. See page 96 for
the collection of key performance metrics on health and safety, including additional information on our marketing and labeling practices.
pharmacy incidents. Safety performance is supported by robust systems
Our suppliers are expected to implement best practices, including clearly
such as continuous quality improvement (CQI) programs, procedures and
defined and well-documented good manufacturing and quality processes,
monitoring to reduce and prevent incidents.
training and record keeping. Through our rigorous supplier and vendor
Our CQI programs support and uphold our long-standing patient safety qualification process and factory assessment process, we evaluate our
culture by empowering and encouraging all team members to report suppliers' ability to deliver consistent, safe and quality products. WBA
pharmacy incidents, near misses and overall safety opportunities to the U.S. reserves the right to audit supplier manufacturing sites of products in
Patient Safety Research Foundation, a patient safety organization listed with non-regulated categories.
the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ). Multiple safety data
Our Quality team helps ensure customer feedback is actively reviewed
sources are reported and analyzed, and opportunities for process, systems,
and analyzed. If we learn about an issue with one of our products, our
physical environment and educational materials are constantly evaluated.
quality incident process is activated and we systematically investigate, take
Technology and process solutions as well as ongoing team member activities
corrective action, and, when necessary, quickly withdraw the product from
and training are developed based on the evaluation of results.
our stores and e-commerce platforms. If a product needs to be withdrawn
Walgreens continues to maintain National Association of Boards of Pharmacy from the market, we ensure it is not sold by issuing a lock on the product at
(NABP) accreditation for Durable Medical Equipment, Prosthetics, Orthotics our distribution centers, at point of sale in the store and online. We take our
and Supplies (DMEPOS). It is also accredited for Community Pharmacy, being customers’ safety seriously, and understand their desire to know more about
recognized for an advanced level of patient care services, quality and safety. the products they used and consume, and so provide information for any
In addition, Walgreens has current chainwide Community Based Specialty recalled owned brand products. These details are available anytime on
(CBS) Utilization Review Accreditation Commission (URAC) accreditation for our websites for Walgreens and Boots.
specialty pharmacy as well as Accreditation Commission for Health Care (ACHC)
accreditation for select CBS sites. URAC and ACHC are independent third-party
1 GRI 416-1 required disclosures are within the Deloitte &
Touche LLP review scope as detailed on pages 119-120. organizations that provide healthcare accreditations based on industry standards.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 26
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Information
We understand the importance of ensuring the integrity of data and the protection of our customers, patients, employees and Company
information. The Company's security processes and controls for information technology (IT) systems and resources; our business; and
Security employees, contractors and third parties help ensure the confidentiality, integrity and availability of our IT systems are maintained.
During fiscal 2023, the Global Chief Information Security Officer role reported patient data. HITRUST certification is valid for two years and was last
GRI 3-3, 418-1
directly to Walgreens Chief Information Officer and the International Chief renewed in December 2023. WBA works with an independent assessor to
Information Officer who jointly oversaw the security of the Company's conduct interim assessments to ensure continued adherence to HITRUST
computer systems, data, networks and other assets, with oversight from the requirements. Additionally, Walgreens is subject to an annual Payment
Audit Committee. The Walgreens and International Chief Information Officers Card Industry (PCI) assessment that includes a review of our policies and
reported to a member of the Executive Management team and into the Audit procedures to protect Walgreens customer credit card data.
Committee. The Company conducts multiple information security audits and
Building and nurturing a culture of security is key to protecting information.
vulnerability assessments on different sections of our IT systems, data and
New employees receive training on a variety of issues, including security
networks on at least an annual basis. WBA also has an information security
and privacy. This training is embedded in our security fundamentals training,
incident response team and maintains a data security event plan to effectively
which is refreshed on an annual basis. This training applies to pharmacists,
manage and respond to information security incidents.
pharmacy technicians, retail team members and team members at our
support offices.
Our global information security policies, which are based on industry
frameworks such as the National Institute of Standards and Technology We also build awareness about phishing through regular employee
and the International Organization for Standardization, set the compliance campaigns. Training and information is available to employees on our
guidelines for our people, processes and systems. At the request of corporate intranet sites. Additionally, we use screen savers, timely internal
our business partners, WBA also engages with HITRUST, a third-party news articles and other communication channels to engage employees
organization, to assess the security and privacy controls around Walgreens about the importance of being alert to cybersecurity risks.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 27
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Patient and
Customer Privacy
GRI 3-3, 418-11
As a global healthcare leader and retailer, personal information
is provided to WBA through purchasing and filling prescriptions,
enrolling in promotional and loyalty programs, registering on our
websites or otherwise communicating with us. We are committed
to protecting patient and customer privacy and data with leading
data protection standards.
The Global Chief Privacy Officer oversees the privacy of WBA’s patient,
consumer and employee data, with oversight from the Audit Committee.
We conduct privacy impact assessments regularly. Our privacy program
reporting is shared with the Audit Committee on a routine basis.
We are transparent with our customers about how we use their data.
Statements are posted on our websites and include information about
data usage and safeguards. We publish our policies about individual
rights requests regarding the use and deletion of personal information
for customers in applicable jurisdictions. We comply with EU and UK law
on data protection and privacy. Our policy is to notify all data subjects of
reportable data incidents in accordance with applicable laws. In the U.S.,
where approximately 80 percent of the WBA personal health data resides,
the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) privacy rule
compliance program incorporates administrative, technical and physical
safeguards. Under our HIPAA policy, we receive written authorization from the
data subject where required, and collection and processing are limited to the
stated purpose. We also have a program to receive, investigate and respond
to privacy complaints.
Annual privacy training is mandatory for applicable team members, including
pharmacy, retail and support office. Applicable U.S. contractors are legally
obligated to receive privacy training.
We also have policies and procedures in place that govern data transfers
to third parties, including appropriate methods and controls, such as
standard contractual clauses.
1 GRI 418-1 required disclosures are within the Deloitte & Touche LLP review scope as detailed
on pages 119-120.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 28
Healthy
Communities
Our Targets
Achieved in fiscal 2023: By fiscal 2024:
Walgreens: Raise more WBA: Provide 100 million
than $25 million for the vaccinations for children
Susan G. Komen and The in developing countries
Leukemia and Lymphoma through "Get a Shot.
Society. Exceeded. Give a Shot." and the UN
Foundation. On track.
By fiscal 2025:
WBA: Help 500 million women and children by providing vitamins
and minerals through Vitamin Angels. On track.
OOvveerrvviieeww GGoovveerrnnaannccee Healthy Communities HHeeaalltthhyy aanndd IInncclluussiivvee WWoorrkkppllaaccee HHeeaalltthhyy PPllaanneett SSuussttaaiinnaabbllee MMaarrkkeettppllaaccee AAppppeennddiicceess
A Letter From...
Alethia Jackson
Senior Vice President of ESG and Chief DEI Officer, Walgreens Boots Alliance
In this milestone year, I feel privileged to be part of an incredible team that follows a long tradition of healthcare pioneers,
who are committed to enabling healthier communities across the U.S. and around the world. Community is the backbone of
our society and as recognized by the World Health Organization, health is the underpinning of productive, resilient and stable
economies. Our commitment to championing healthier communities is of critical importance to current and future generations.
We understand that our work globally entails us taking a local testing equity. This work is embedded in who we are as a company.
approach to meeting the specific needs of communities and that’s Every day our team members engage with patients and customers
where partnerships are invaluable. Over the past eight years, WBA globally and seek to improve their health and well-being. In 2023,
has donated $373 million1 to support the health and well-being of the World Health Organization (WHO) confirmed climate change as
the communities we serve. Our work includes partnering with our an urgent threat to pregnant women, newborns and children and I
consumers, governments, charities, non-governmental organizations, am enormously proud to mark our 10-year anniversary with Vitamin
industry bodies and other healthcare providers on disease prevention, Angels. With the support of our customers, team members and their
detection, treatment, and education. We have also worked closely incredible network, we have helped reach over 2.6 million expectant
alongside our partner organizations to address social determinants of mothers and their babies in the U.S. and Puerto Rico, and over 400
health, support people living with cancer in the U.S., UK, and Ireland, million women and children around the world with life-changing
Mexico, Thailand and across Europe, and support youth mental vitamins and supplements.
health and awareness across the U.S. Together with our partners we
I invite you to read in this chapter all that we have done to build
are uniquely able to support our patients, our consumers, and our
on our long and rich heritage of reimagining how local healthcare
communities and have a long-term impact.
improves societal health and well-being, and what we are doing to
Our work with our partners and in our stores provides tangible and enable communities to bring about more joy through better health.
visible examples of what we mean by health equity. Our ambitions
are bold. This includes overcoming barriers to medication adherence,
providing greater access to care regardless of an individual’s personal
background, addressing cost challenges or providing vaccine or
1Cash and Non-cash valuation of community contributions. Further details on page 46.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 30
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Health Access
and Awareness
GRI 3-3, 203-1, 203-2, 413-1
Health equity
GRI 3-3, 203-1, 203-2, 413-1
We strive to provide essential care to the communities in which we are
embedded. As one of the world's largest providers of pharmacy and other
healthcare services in local communities around the world, WBA understands
the needs of the communities we serve. WBA is uniquely positioned to make
an impact on healthcare access and affordability. You can learn more about
our endeavors to improve access to healthcare for millions of people on
the following pages. These efforts are reflected throughout our business
activities, advocacy work and ESG initiatives.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 31
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Championing health equity The Company established three pillars by which we
ensure our care remains accessible to communities:
GRI 3-3, 413-1
Access:
The COVID-19 pandemic taught us valuable lessons about the 78 percent of Americans live within 5 miles of a Walgreens
important role our stores, services and pharmacy team play in the health or Duane Reade retail pharmacy. For those who do not, we
of our communities. We see our pharmacists as our frontline educators. continued the effort to go the extra mile to reach medically
They are not only accessible in the communities where they work but underserved communities with our mobile clinics. Our coach
are also often active and trusted members of those communities. buses outfitted for health providers traveled coast to coast,
meeting people where they were while distributing thousands
Walgreens and other pharmacies were able to make a huge impact
of vaccines and other services.
throughout the COVID-19 pandemic. Between February 2020 and
September 2022, it is estimated that services provided by pharmacies
such as administering vaccines and antiviral medications helped to save Partnerships:
over 1 million lives and avoid over 8 million hospitalizations in the U.S. We understand that to reach those who need the most help,
Through new policy changes coming out of the COVID-19 pandemic, we cannot work alone. In fiscal 2023 the Company hosted over
Walgreens will continue its work to increase access to vaccines 1,000 clinics to address vaccine hesitancy and provide vaccines —
and healthcare services and reach underserved communities. working with community organizers and faith-based organizations
to major companies. These events and partnerships have been
instrumental in breaking down barriers and providing the tools
needed to engage communities and overcome obstacles to care.
Additionally, these partnerships will be leveraged across other
health services.
Education and information:
We are committed to ensuring our communities have access
to the information necessary to promote good health outcomes.
Because our pharmacy team members live and participate in the
communities they serve, they are seen as a credible source of
information among their community members. Our pharmacy team
members are actively combating misinformation and encouraging
healthcare access.
Across these pillars, Walgreens is focusing on 4 key activation areas:
social determinants of health, vaccination and testing, medication
adherence and chronic care management and wellness and care.
In fiscal 2023, Walgreens launched the Health Equity Champions Network.
Health Equity Champions connect team members and customers to the
work Walgreens does in health equity and serve as a point of contact
for health equity work in their region.
The work we have done to establish internal forums for improved awareness,
transparency and knowledge sharing regarding health equity is demonstrative
of our organizational focus on health equity and empowering each employee
to be a health equity ambassador.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 32
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
To help address heath inequity in the communities we serve, Boots
established the Health Equity Stakeholder Group in 2021. This group
outlined four key themes that would guide store activities and internal
initiatives to promote health equity across Boots UK:
Turning awareness into advocacy:
As the largest pharmacy in the UK,
Ensuring all Boots communications are written through the lens
Boots is uniquely positioned to
of promoting equity in its education programs and services.
address health equity and create
greater access to health services
across the country. Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic (BAME) inequalities:
Recognizing the disparities in access to healthcare among
Black, Asian and minority ethnic communities in the UK and
working to achieve parity, especially in the treatment and
prevention of COVID-19.
Digital inequalities:
We are committed to improving digital access to healthcare.
Recognizing that — as of the latest Ofcom technology tracker
data published in 2023 — seven percent of UK households do
not have internet access, Boots is committed to maintaining
care options that do not exclude those without digital access.
Local solutions:
Our pharmacists live and work in their local communities. We
want our local teams to keep us apprised of inequalities they may
encounter and feel empowered to suggest their own ideas about
how to tackle them. At the same time, we will continue to empower
our team members with research from our partners, including The
Kings Fund, and shared best practices to address inequities together.
At the start of the 2022 calendar year, we established a network of
Health Equity Champions across Boots UK. These champions work across
the support office and stores to help ensure that new initiatives meet the
standards of Boots' efforts to address health inequities. Whenever we launch
a new initiative, the champion will ask their Boots team members to complete
a Health Equity Assessment Tool (HEAT) to test the accessibility of the service
in a range of scenarios, ensuring it has the best chance of reaching
all members of the community.
In May 2023, Boots attended and presented at the NHS England Health
Inequalities Improvement Board on “Improving Equity Access to Healthcare
through Boots.” In the presentation, we discussed how Boots aligns with health
equity goals from the NHS and is working to increase access to vulnerable
communities, improve health outcomes and lower the cost of care for all.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 33
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Access
and continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) devices to its New to Therapy
pharmacy program in addition to anti-anxiety medication, anti-psychotics
and anti-depressants.
GRI 3-3, 203-1, 203-2, 413-1
Walgreens works to improve medication adherence, manage chronic
disease and overcome barriers to care through numerous programs,
which are detailed in this section.
Overcoming barriers to medication adherence
GRI 3-3, 203-1
Walgreens Chicago Health Incubator
The failure to take medications as prescribed is associated
with adverse health outcomes and rising healthcare costs. GRI 3-3, 203-1, 203-2, 413-1
WBA strives to improve medication adherence by addressing
systemic barriers to care. Barriers can include everything from The Walgreens Chicago Health Equity Incubator is a pilot program designed
a misunderstanding of prescription interactions with other drugs to address health inequities and impact patient outcomes. Driven by a cross-
to a lack of access to transportation. Lack of insurance, financial functional team of individuals across pharmacy operations, data analytics
and involved pharmacies, the program is designed to create direct lines
insecurity, inconvenience and forgetfulness are also commonly
of communication between patients in vulnerable communities and
identified as factors in adherence failure.
providers who can interpret feedback into actionable change.
The first phase of the pilot launched in August 2020 and focused on
Our pharmacists and healthcare providers take the extra step to help ensure
Chicago's South and West Sides. Phase 1 focused on diabetes outreach,
adherence among their patients. Analytics help us predict the patients most
pediatric asthma consultations and reducing delayed medications pick up.
likely to become non-adherent and identify custom ways to reach them and
help them maintain their regimen. Adherence programs for the most complex The incubator moved from its first phase, where outreach concentrated
treatments and disease-state management programs include phone, virtual on prescription management for patients living with diabetes and asthma,
and in-person consultations to address potential side effects and offer to its second phase in July 2022, when a mental health wellness check
remedies, digital solutions including medication synchronization, delivery, for patients new to mental health prescription therapy was added to the
consultations and patient education and efforts to connect patients program. The pharmacies involved are situated in underserved areas where
to financial assistance to help them stay on track. mental health disparities may be worse due to institutional racism, health
insurance access and coverage, inadequate care and treatment and cultural
Our pharmacists are continuously learning and updating their training
acceptance, among other social determinants of health. The program has
on common chronic conditions including hyperlipidemia and diabetes
now expanded beyond the South and West Sides of Chicago to include
management. Recognizing that diabetes, high cholesterol and hypertension
pharmacies in Texas, Arizona, Nevada and New Mexico, for a total of nearly
are prevalent among Americans, we tailored specific programs to help
50 pharmacies offering proactive mental health support to patients.
improve outcomes for patients living with these disease states. Across these
conditions, Walgreens PDC (Proportion of Days Covered) rates improved by Between July and December 2022, more than 1,200 wellness checks
0.3% in fiscal 2023 compared to fiscal 2022. PDC is a common measurement were made 45 days post pick-up across Chicago-area pharmacies. Of the
for adherence referring to the percentage of time a patient has medication patients who received a 45-day outreach call, they were more likely to refill
available based on refill records. their medication when due and did so within fewer days than patients who
did not receive an outreach call. The proportion of patients in the initiative
Medication non-adherence remains a significant barrier to positive health
who refilled their medications within seven days of the outreach call rose
outcomes for those with mental health conditions. To help support greater
by 8.7 percent.
adherence, outcomes, and lower overall costs for patients and payers,
Walgreens has added oncolytics, estrogen hormones, antiandrogens
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 34
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Transforming access Boots works closely with the NHS on its Core20PLUS5 initiative.
Core20PLUS5 is an approach designed to reduce healthcare inequalities
GRI 3-3, 203-1, 203-2
at both the national and system level. The name Core20PLUS5 comes from
the population groups identified as vulnerable and lacking healthcare
Furthering our commitment to increasing access to care access, and the five clinical areas of focus. Core20 represents the most
for everyone, continues to be a priority for WBA. deprived 20 percent of the national population as identified by the national
Index of Multiple Deprivation (IMD). PLUS population groups should be
identified at a local level, mostly likely minority communities, people with
The U.S. Healthcare segment was launched in fiscal 2022 to facilitate WBA's
disabilities and multiple long-term health conditions. The five clinical areas
consumer-centric healthcare strategy in the communities we serve across the
of focus are maternity care, severe mental illness, chronic respiratory
U.S., which includes investment in Village Practice Management Company,
disease, early cancer diagnosis and hypertension.
LLC ("VillageMD"), Shields Health Solutions Parent, LLC ("Shields"), CCX
Next LLC ("CareCentrix") and the company's organically grown healthcare In Germany, Alliance Healthcare Deutschland provides pharmacy teams
business. The U.S. Healthcare segment plans to become a leading provider with high-quality training content onsite and online to provide the best care
of local clinical care services by leveraging its consumer-centric technology to patients and customers. At the end of fiscal 2023, more than 10,000
and pharmacy network to deliver value-based care. In addition to the people in Germany were trained on topics such as long-COVID, diabetes
investments within U.S. Healthcare the company also plans to continue to prevention and “Digital Pharmacy.” More than 90 percent of the people
transform its core pharmacy and retail business and its goal is to provide trained work in our customers’ pharmacies.
better consumer experiences, improve health outcomes and lower costs.
This strategy is foundational to WBA as a leading provider of local clinical
care services and addresses all dimensions of physical, emotional and
mental health. We will continue to leverage our consumer-centric technology,
pharmacy network and partnerships to deliver and enable others to deliver
value-based care, including vaccinations, diagnostic testing, chronic care
management and specialty management.
Walgreens Health Corners and Health Advisors provide accessible, local
healthcare services. Locations offer services ranging from preventive care
and wellness checks to support with managing chronic conditions. Health
Advisors provide a range of health and clinical services that supplement
care received from primary care physicians and specialists.
Through the Walgreens and VillageMD coordinated care model, patients
receive full-service primary care alongside convenient and cost-effective
pharmacy services.
Walgreens and VillageMD are leveraging their combined expertise in
pharmacy and primary care to deliver a series of programs that allow
physicians and pharmacists to collaborate closely and coordinate patient
care to help make healthcare easier and more accessible for improved long-
term outcomes. With these programs, Walgreens and VillageMD can keep
patients more connected to care by delivering the right care, at the right time,
with more personal service, and by encouraging the adoption of behaviors
that can help them get and stay healthy.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 35
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Clinical trials and research Boots has been an ideal partner to the OFH initiative due to its wide network
of pharmacies that are accessible to the UK population. Together with OFH,
Boots ran a pilot where we used our customer data to encourage volunteers
Walgreens launched its Clinical Trials business in June 2022 and remains
to get involved and provide samples of their biometric data. Following the
committed to increasing diversity in clinical trials and helping drive more
success of the pilot, we decided to roll out the program more widely and
equitable and inclusive research. Walgreens combines its trusted relationship
provide OFH clinics in a number of our stores. Volunteers come to our stores
with patients in communities throughout the U.S. with health insights and
to provide blood samples and physical measurements before completing
proprietary selection software to proactively match potential patients to trials
the online questionnaire. At the end of fiscal 2023, the pilot had expanded
across a range of disease areas. Walgreens looks forward to reaching eligible
to 70 stores, and now we have trained over 200 phlebotomists. Boots has
patients for enrollment at the right time to deliver the right message and
completed over 100,000 appointments since the launch of the pilot.
help orchestrate their participation seamlessly, addressing access barriers
through a compliant, validated and secure decentralized clinical trial platform
built on a rigorous compliance and regulatory framework to protect patient
privacy and security. This approach leverages owned and partner digital and
HIV testing
physical assets to directly engage patients at home, virtually or in person.
Collaboration with AllianceRx Walgreens Specialty Pharmacy, as well as
investments made by Walgreens Boots Alliance in VillageMD, CareCentrix Since the beginning of the epidemic more than 40 years ago, Walgreens
and Shields will also support new clinical trial approaches, particularly for has supported those impacted by HIV/AIDS. Walgreens is committed to
specialty treatments. providing education, tools, testing and support to help prevent HIV and
connect those living with HIV to care so that they live long, healthy lives.
In one U.S. clinical trial for an Atherosclerotic Cardiovascular Disease In fiscal 2023, Walgreens expanded its support in HIV testing and treatment.
(ACSVD) study, Walgreens leveraged real-world insights to identify In December 2022, Walgreens became a founding member of the U.S.
potential study participants within 20 miles of the research study sites. Business Action to End HIV, a coalition of businesses seeking to scale up
This community-centered approach helped recruit high percentages key HIV prevention and treatment strategies to help end the epidemic by
of historically underrepresented groups of participants: 17 percent of 2030. For the thirteenth year, Walgreens partnered with KFF’s Greater Than
participants were Black/African American and 19 percent were Hispanic/ HIV on the nation’s largest National HIV Testing Day event, bringing health
Latino, significantly higher than historical national averages of clinical trial departments and community organizations into more than 400 Walgreens
participation (as of 2020, 8 percent and 11 percent respectively). In another stores to provide FREE rapid HIV tests on June 27, 2023. Counselors were
study evaluating a next-generation monoclonal antibody for the potential also available to answer questions about HIV prevention and treatment
treatment of Alzheimer’s disease, Walgreens recruitment efforts resulted options, and provide referrals for pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP), FDA-
in more than 21 percent of Walgreens recruited-patients self-reporting approved medications that are highly effective in preventing HIV.
they are Hispanic/Latino, nearly double the 2020 average of clinical trial
In March 2023, Walgreens launched a partnership with DoorDash and
participation amongst the Hispanic/Latino population.
Uber to offer Same Day Rx Delivery of medications for the prevention and
treatment of HIV. This service is available to eligible patients within 15 miles
In the UK, Boots works with Our Future Health (OFH), a research
of thousands of participating Walgreens retail pharmacies nationwide.
program partnered with the NHS. OFH aims to collect information from
Thousands of Walgreens pharmacists have undergone specialized training
millions of volunteers across the UK to help researchers find ways to prevent,
for HIV and PrEP, which builds on the company's more than 300 specialty
detect and treat diseases earlier. OFH asks volunteers for permission to
pharmacies across the country, many of which offer specialized services
combine the information and samples that they give with existing information
for HIV and PrEP.
about them, including their health records. Volunteers are asked to go
to an OFH clinic to provide small blood samples and get some physical
measurements taken including blood pressure and cholesterol levels.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 36
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Cancer care Vaccine equity
Boots is piloting a program for pharmacist referrals of suspected cancer In April 2023, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services announced
direct to primary and secondary care. These pilots will cover adults only the CDC Bridge Access Program, a bridge program to help uninsured patients
and selected types of tumors reflecting symptoms most likely to present obtain COVID-19 vaccines through December 2024. Walgreens will continue
in a pharmacy available test. By the end of fiscal 2023, the pilot included to help provide vaccinations and care to uninsured patients through the help
12 pharmacies in the UK. of the bridge program to drive equitable access to vaccines and testing.
Boots has two pharmacists integrated into the Macmillan Clinical Advisory See more on childhood vaccinations and Get a Shot. Give a Shot.
Board as Macmillan fellows, who dedicate specific time to work at Macmillan. on page 39.
Their work focuses on addressing the issues of delayed diagnosis and
canceled and rescheduled treatment that resulted from the COVID-19
pandemic. These fellows also work to improve access to Boots' partnership
work with Macmillan and to increase the number of Boots Macmillan
Informational Pharmacists (BMIPs).
Walgreens works with the Colorectal Cancer Alliance (CCA), the nation’s
largest patient advocacy organization dedicated to ending colorectal cancer
and reaching those in need of a life-saving colorectal cancer screening.
Walgreens Find Care added a CCA tile to the platform that links
to CCA’s personalized quiz that helps people see what screening option
is best for them (e.g., at-home test, colonoscopy) and provides educational
resources. Walgreens committed $50,000 to support CCA on a targeted
social media awareness campaign focused on driving people to the quiz.
Walgreens has recently partnered with organizations in the cancer space that
work to provide support to cancer patients undergoing treatment. Walgreens
partnered with the Look Good Feel Better Foundation and committed
$20,000 to the foundation to help individuals in cancer treatment find
confidence, normalcy and community through in-person and at-home virtual
programs. We sponsored free workshops, webinars and at-home programs
that offered lessons on skin and nail care, wigs and turbans, cosmetics,
accessories and personal styling – all with the goal of helping cancer patients
regain confidence and focus on becoming survivors. 15,000 patients,
survivors and supporters participated in these workshops.
Walgreens also sponsored a custom issue of Elephants and Tea magazine
in fall 2022. Elephants and Tea is a magazine for and by adolescent and young
adult (AYA) cancer patients, survivors and caregivers that tells their stories.
This issue focused on cancer treatment and fertility, and how young cancer
patients have to think about the future and their fertility when diagnosed with
cancer. The issue included information on what patients should be aware of
when it comes to fertility and cancer treatments, how they can advocate for
themselves and personal stories from cancer patients about the conversations
they had to have around fertility while undergoing treatment.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 37
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Addressing the high cost of care
GRI 3-3, 203-1, 203-2
The rising cost of a prescription is an often-cited cause for
patients who fail to adhere to their medication regimen.
To address adherence issues and prescription abandonment, Walgreens
collaborates with other businesses and organizations in the pharmaceutical
supply chain to make medications more affordable and accessible through
copay assistance.
We believe drug prices should be transparent as they move through the
supply chain and that savings should be passed on to patients to lower
their out-of-pocket costs.
We are actively supporting legislation at the state and federal levels on
pharmacy benefit management reform, which could reduce the out-of-pocket
cost of prescriptions, in addition to insulin copay cap legislation. At the state
level, Walgreens has advocated for expanding access to pharmacy services
and care for Medicaid patients, ensuring they can fill their prescriptions and
receive care, are covered by insurance and can be assisted by their pharmacy
of convenience rather than the pharmacy designated by the state. In fiscal
2023, Walgreens specialty pharmacies helped 929,354 patients in the U.S.
secure more than $446 million in copay assistance for prescriptions.
Scope of practice policy changes
Our team members are trained to identify where copay assistance may
be available at the point of sale. Our dedicated centralized support teams
The Preparedness (PREP) Act that provided liability protections to
proactively contact patients using our traditional retail pharmacies for copay
manufacturers, distributors, states, localities, territories, tribes and licensed
payments and plans that meet specific parameters. We aim to promote
health care professionals, including pharmacy professionals, during the
seamless care for patients, assisting them in finding solutions in the face of
COVID-19 pandemic was extended to Oct. 1, 2024. Now, pharmacists
limited distribution drug networks, payer restrictions and other considerations.
and technicians can continue to administer COVID-19 vaccines, testing
In 45 states, Washington, D.C. and Puerto Rico, Walgreens Prescription and treatments, as well as administering flu and childhood vaccines. This
Savings Club offers savings of up to 80 percent compared to cash retail extension allows for greater access to these vaccines and services, as most
prices of prescriptions purchased at participating Walgreens. The discount COVID-19 vaccine doses were administered at a local pharmacy, and
prescription drug program applies to thousands of prescriptions, including at least 40% of U.S. pharmacies are in underserved and socially vulnerable
generic, preventive and lifestyle medications that insurance may not cover. areas. Specific to Walgreens footprint, more than 50% of Walgreens are
located in underserved communities experiencing health inequities
In Mexico, where out-of-pocket payments can present a barrier to care,
and/or healthcare access shortages, as defined by social vulnerability
we operate national pharmacy chains that provide care within the context
index (SVI) score, income level, medically underserved area (MUA)
of local healthcare operations.
and/or health professional shortage area (HPSA).
The high-quality generics brand Almus sold in our Mexican chain Farmacias
We continue to advocate for and work to secure policy enactment that
Benavides has expanded to 288 products. In addition to our aim of making
has led to greater involvement of the pharmacist in vaccinations, testing,
treatment options available for all chronic conditions, we strive to keep pricing
treatment, blood pressure, diabetes, HIV care and more.
affordable, so treatment is accessible for patients diagnosed with diabetes,
high cholesterol and high blood pressure.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 38
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Community engagement Flu prevention
Pharmacies are frequently the first point of contact for people GRI 3-3, 203-2, 413-1
seeking care, whether preventive or in response to illness.
At WBA, we touch over 10 million patients a day in stores and WBA is committed to helping protect our communities from exposure
digitally. WBA’s locations in nine countries employ approximately to the flu, which causes tens of thousands of deaths per year. Walgreens
pledged to donate $5 million of free flu shot vouchers in the U.S. by 2024
331,000 people, with more than 32,000 being registered
and reached $6.8 million by the end of fiscal 2022. In fiscal 2023 alone, we
pharmacists. Our pharmacists work at the nexus of community
distributed vouchers equating to over $1.8 million, reaching a total of $8.6
healthcare to provide education on chronic condition care and
million. Through flu equity outreach, including partnerships with community
medication management, administer vaccinations and partner organizations, HBCUs and federally qualified health centers, Walgreens
with health systems to advance health and wellness. combats vaccine hesitancy. Since 2010, Walgreens has provided nearly
2 million free flu vaccinations to customers who present a voucher,
helping address health disparities for underserved communities.
Our team members who provide healthcare services in person, telephonically
and digitally are the most accessible entry point for many patients seeking At the start of fiscal 2023 and this past flu season, Boots administered more
access to healthcare. We are members of the communities we serve, and than 1 million free flu vaccinations on behalf of the NHS for those eligible and
we use our community insights and cultural competency to help ensure our privately for those who were not eligible for free vaccinations. Boots also
patients’ questions are answered and needs are met. We see our role as an offered free vaccinations to its 45,000 team members for the third consecutive
integral part of the patient’s healthcare team and endeavor to personalize year and continued its Corporate Flu Vaccination Service for organizations
care while strengthening relationships across the patient’s healthcare that wish to pay for and then offer their employees free flu vaccinations.
network to improve health outcomes, especially for chronic and
complex conditions.
Boots maintains its participation in the Hidden Disabilities Sunflower
scheme, through which patients with autism, chronic pain, dementia and Initiatives to address health equity around the world
visual or hearing impairments can wear a sunflower lanyard to alert Boots
team members that they may need extra assistance in store or when Flu prevention
receiving a vaccine.
Aside from work in the U.S. and UK, WBA works to increase flu vaccination
At a local level, we encourage pharmacists to share ideas on how access abroad through partnerships and pharmacies in other countries.
to increase accessibility for their own communities.
Cardiovascular health in Germany
Community health fairs To improve cardiovascular health awareness, Alliance Healthcare Germany
continued its collaboration with the German Hypertension Association
Walgreens community health fairs give our employees the opportunity to
to provide online training and education for its teams.
engage with their neighbors on healthcare issues while meeting patients
where they are and where they feel comfortable. They also offer an
opportunity for community members to access services and resources
Get a Shot. Give a Shot.
including flu shots, health screening and educational information. Walgreens
stores sponsored, participated and conducted a variety of health-focused Since 2013, together with the United Nations Foundation (UNF) Shot@
community outreach events during fiscal 2023. Life campaign, we have helped provide over 93 million lifesaving measles
and polio vaccines to children around the world. For every vaccination
administered at Walgreens and Duane Reade pharmacies and clinics, the
value of a vaccine is donated up to the donation maximum of $2.6 million per
year. WBA is on track to meet its goal of 100 million vaccinations by fiscal 2024.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 39
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Digital Healthcare Access
Advances in digital healthcare access
GRI 3-3, 203-1
Universalizing digital access to healthcare and pharmacy products
is an integral component of WBA’s strategy to increase healthcare
access, particularly in medically underserved communities. Building
on the efforts to serve our patients virtually during the pandemic,
we have expanded several tools to deliver care to our communities.
The Walgreens app has over 94 million lifetime downloads. Users can
set pill reminders, refill by scanning prescriptions, combine family orders
and chat with a real-time, 24/7 pharmacist while eliminating the need to run
to the pharmacy for in-person consultations and prescription pickup, thanks
to the option for same-day prescription delivery. Approximately 113 million
members of the myWalgreens loyalty program receive additional savings
on their orders.
The Boots Health Hub, a digital services platform serving Boots UK, gives
customers visiting boots.com access to over 80 healthcare services, including
healthcare tests, COVID-19 services, vaccinations, prescriptions, Livi’s online
general practitioner consultations and the Boots Online Doctor service.
Boots Online Doctor, a virtual service for more than 45 common healthcare
conditions, provides quick access to advice and prescription-only medicine
without having to see a general practitioner.
To improve cardiovascular health awareness, Alliance Healthcare Germany
continued its collaboration with the German Hypertension Association to
provide online training and education for its teams.
In February 2022, Boots became the first retailer in the UK and the Republic
of Ireland to offer Recite Me technology in its online store, making it more
accessible for the more than 13 million people in the UK and the Republic of
Ireland who experience barriers when shopping online. The Recite Me assistive
toolbar includes screen reading functionality, multiple reading aids and an on-
demand live translation feature that boasts over 100 languages, including 35 in
text-to-speech. These features give website visitors the ability to manage how
they view and interact with content to suit their individual needs.
Benavides pharmacies in Mexico hosted eight online health forums over
the course of 2023, providing free access to expert information on diabetes,
chronic pain, sexual health and healthy motherhood.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 40
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Digital healthcare access programs
Walgreens Patient Care Portal Save a Trip Refills
A system that helps pharmacists identify and contact patients eligible Allow customers to align multiple prescriptions to one date. More than
for Medication Therapy Management Services and medication reviews 6.9 million patients were enrolled as of Aug. 31, 2023, saving three
to connect them with appropriate interventions, including: pharmacy trips a year on average.
• Comprehensive disease-state management
• Proactive care for patients taking specialty medications
Walgreens Pickup and Delivery
for HIV and chronic inflammatory disease
A digital offering through which patients can prepay for medication and
choose their next-day delivery or pickup location on mobile devices. In fiscal
2023, Walgreens partnered with DoorDash and Uber to provide free delivery
Walgreens Advanced Care Program
for Paxlovid, a COVID-19 oral antiviral therapy, and free same-day delivery
Applies predictive analytics to identify patients at higher risk of medications for the prevention and treatment of HIV.
of non-adherence, prompting holistic intervention and resolution
of barriers to medication adherence.
Mobile Apps
The Walgreens app is a free, five-star-rated mobile app that provides access
The Thread
to digital resources, such as Rx Alerts, that remind patients to fill and pick up
Walgreens' blog, The Thread, is a content hub for all things health, prescriptions. For communities in the UK, the Boots app also allows patients
wellness and beauty with information on common health conditions and customers to set up refill reminders and daily vitamin reminders.
such as asthma, diabetes and cold and flu, plus articles on mental
health, stress, diet and fitness.
New Medicines Services
In England, patients prescribed a new medicine for certain long-term
Walgreens Find Care
conditions such as diabetes, asthma or high blood pressure can access
An online tool that connects customers to doctors, therapists, dermatologists a free NHS service to help get the most out of their medicine. The service
and other health care providers in minutes. The Find Care platform1 provides gives patients the chance to ask their pharmacist any questions, identify any
customers access to care in over 24 categories delivered by 65+ partners problems they are experiencing and find the easiest and most effective
engaged in local, virtual and asynchronous care. In fiscal 2023, there were way of taking their new medicine.
over 66 million visitors to the site.
Free Online NHS Repeat Prescription Service
New to Therapy
The Boots Free Online Repeat Prescription Service allows patients to order
their repeat prescription items online. Boots will send the request to the
A pharmacist-led solution through which Walgreens pharmacists engage
general practitioner (GP) and, once approved, the electronic prescription is
patients who are new to certain medication therapies, helping educate them
sent directly to Boots for dispensing and collection or delivery, saving the
on their medication and addressing any barriers or concerns to drive better
patient a trip to the GP.
adherence and overall health. With Walgreens assistance, as of Aug. 31,
1T his KPI maps to Material Topic 1: Access to Affordable and
2023, nearly 46 million patients were enrolled in the pharmacy’s 90-day
Quality Healthcare and is within the Deloitte & Touche LLP
review scope as detailed on pages 119-120. refills program, making medication access more convenient.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 41
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Partnerships for Good
DISCOVER GRI 3-3, 203-1, 413-1
Below is a sample of these
partnerships, and other information We continue to engage in long-term partnerships at the
on other partnerships can be found
national and international levels to tackle health issues like
in the "Supporting causes" section
poverty, disease prevention, mental health, dementia and cancer
on page 46.
support. Our collaborations help improve the lives of hundreds
of millions of vulnerable people, especially women and children.
In the area of cancer care, WBA focuses on creating innovative and
meaningful support for patients and their loved ones in three ways: assisting
people living with cancer, working with organizations that advance research
and supporting prevention programs. We work with cancer organizations
to train our pharmacists and beauty consultants so they can provide expert
advice and support to cancer patients, their families and their caregivers
when they need it most.
We also work with charitable partners that help empower young people
to reach their full potential. By providing lifesaving vaccinations, vitamins,
essential hygiene products and more, we are committed to supporting
the health and well-being of future generations.
Through our charitable partnerships, we aim to lead by example and
be a catalyst for others to do good. To maximize our impact, we created
several initiatives that our team members, customers, patients, suppliers
and local communities are empowered to support. These programs generate
enthusiasm, increase team member satisfaction and engagement and build
customer loyalty.
Partnerships Directory
WBA partners with many organizations to further drive access to health
resources and services to communities the Company serves across the
globe. These partnerships help support research and care for different
disease states, disease prevention, as well as drive greater access to various
healthcare resources and services. WBA partners with organizations by
making product and monetary donations, helping with fundraising efforts
and creating resources with these partners to further their causes.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 42
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Disease State Partnerships Fundación Alma, Mexico
During fiscal 2023, Farmacias Benavides, WBA’s retail pharmacy chain in
European Organisation For Research and Treatment of Cancer Mexico, continued to raise funds for Fundación Alma, a charity that supports
(EORTC) uninsured or under insured women living with cancer through funding for
reconstructive surgery, prosthetics, psychological assistance and other aid.
EORTC is an independent, non-governmental, non-profit cancer research
Since 2014, Farmacias Benavides has raised more than 8.9 million Mexican
organization. Over the past decade, WBA has supported EORTC in building
pesos ($481,000) for Fundación Alma. On October 16, 2022, Farmacia
and developing the SPECTA platform into the leading pan-European
Benavides sponsored its annual Rose Fuerte race to raise money for
translational research infrastructure. In October 2022, we announced the next
Fundación Alma. The race helped to raise 956,600 Mexican pesos ($52,000).
phase of our partnership with EORTC, which is a goal to raise €1.8 million
As of Aug. 31, 2023, Benavides has helped fund more than 176 reconstructive
($1,906,000) in support of the E²RADIatE platform, aimed at defining optimal
surgeries and more than 1,331 prostheses through its partnership with
radiation oncology treatment strategies and interventions that can become
Fundación Alma.
the new standard of care for patients through the performance of clinical trials.
Baan Gerda, Thailand
For more than a decade, Boots Thailand has supported Baan Gerda,
a nonprofit that supports children and orphans infected with HIV across
Thailand. In fiscal 2023, Boots Thailand raised over 1 million Thai baht
($29,000) from customers via donation boxes across Boots stores in
Thailand and Boots products for Baan Gerda.
Look Good Feel Better
Walgreens partnered with the Look Good Feel Better Foundation and
committed $20,000 to the foundation to help individuals in cancer treatment
find confidence, normalcy and community through in-person and virtual
Thailand’s National Cancer Institute
programs. Walgreens sponsored free workshops, webinars and at-home
Since 2016, Boots Thailand has worked in partnership with the National programs that ran from November 2022 through February 2023. They offered
Cancer Institute (NCI) to provide underprivileged individuals with specialist lessons on skin and nail care, wigs and turbans, cosmetics, accessories
cancer care, education and resources. In 2023, Boots Thailand donated over and personal styling – all with the goal of helping cancer patients regain
1 million Thai baht ($29,000) raised during the No Plastic Bag campaign for confidence and to focus on becoming survivors. 15,000 patients,
NCI to help procure medical equipment for treating cancer patients. survivors and supporters participated in these workshops.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 43
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation
Walgreens continues to support the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation in the
pursuit of its mission to find a cure for the disease and advance high quality,
specialized care for the CF community. In 2017, Walgreens became the sole
owner of Cystic Fibrosis (CF) Services, a specialty pharmacy for CF patients
and their families after the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation sold its ownership stake
to Walgreens.
Dementia — Understand Together, Republic of Ireland
Boots Ireland has partnered with Dementia — Understand Together since
its launch in 2016. Understand Together is a public support, awareness and
information campaign aimed at inspiring people from all sections of society
to stand together with the 500,000 Irish people whose families have been
affected by dementia. Boots Ireland aims to make its 94 stores across the
country dementia-inclusive so people living with dementia can remain part
of their own community, maintaining a better quality of life for longer. Boots
Ireland developed a dementia awareness e-learning module to upskill
team members. To date, 90 percent of Boots Ireland team members
have completed the module.
Donate Life America
Walgreens continuously partners with Donate Life America to raise money
and awareness around the importance of organ, eye and tissue donation
and becoming a donor.
Global Healthy Living Foundation
In July 2023, Walgreens announced its latest collaboration with the
Global Healthy Living Foundation (GHLF), in which we partnered with
GHLF to host a virtual health series to promote healthier living and
provide attendees with helpful resources and tips for managing their
health conditions. Speakers focused on everyday life areas like eating
well, staying active, managing stress, keeping up with vaccines and
remembering to take prescribed medications.
Pancreatic Cancer Action Network
Walgreens continues to be a corporate partner of the Pancreatic
Cancer Action Network, which works to connect patients and healthcare
professionals to pancreatic cancer resources and improve outcomes.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 44
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Access Partnerships National League of Cities
Walgreens has partnered with the National League of Cities,
United Nations Foundation, Get a Shot. Give a Shot. an organization comprised of city, town and village leaders that are
focused on improving the quality of life for their current and future
WBA continues to support the United Nations Foundation (UNF) and its work
constituents. In fiscal 2023, Walgreens hosted a flu clinic at one of their
to increase access to vaccinations and primary care. From December 2022 to
events designed to educate attendees from city governments about
January 2023, UNF and UNICEF focused on increasing vaccinations among
accessing the vaccines for their communities.
children in locations including Iran, Togo, Malawi, Zambia and others. Through
this program they were able to deliver over 950,000 measles vaccinations
and 10 million polio vaccinations.
Woodland Environment Fund, Republic of Ireland
To commemorate 25 years of Boots operating in the Republic of Ireland,
Mental Health America Boots worked with the Irish Department of Agriculture, Food and the
Marine to plant 11 acres of trees as part of the Woodland Environmental
Walgreens continues to partner with Mental Health America (MHA) to provide
Fund. Approximately 12,100 native Irish trees have been planted to help
resources for team members and the communities we serve. In fiscal 2023,
afforestation and support biodiversity in the region. The site was further
Walgreens partnered with MHA to launch a Back-to-School toolkit, which
enhanced in 2023 by the creation of a wetland. Wetlands are high priority
provides a range of resources for parents, students, teachers, caregivers
habitats, and this new wetland will enhance the site for attracting important
and school personnel.
invertebrates like dragonflies and damselflies, priority birds like Grey Wagtail
and Snipe, amphibians such as frogs and makes a small contribution to
floodplain restoration. During 2023, the site was used to build awareness
Congressional Black Caucus Foundation
of biodiversity and nature restoration through videos and newsletters
and Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institute
and also onsite training with the leadership team.
In fiscal 2023 Walgreens hosted flu shot clinics in Washington, D.C. at the
Congressional Black Caucus Spouses Community Breakfast and Health Fair
during the CBCF Annual Legislative Conference and at the Congressional
Hispanic Caucus Institute Leadership Conference.
National Minority Quality Forum and Faith Health Alliance
In 2020, the National Minority Quality Forum’s Center for Sustainable Health
Care Quality and Equity launched the Faith Health Alliance. The program
was designed to gather churches and faith leaders together to help improve
healthcare access in communities of color. Walgreens is a sponsor of the
Faith Health Alliance and supports the alliance with financial contributions,
as well as meeting with faith leaders to help educate them on topics such
as health screenings, vaccinations, counseling and medication assistance.
Leaders are then able to educate their congregations and help increase
access to important health services.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 45
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Giving Back: Corporate
Corporate giving — cumulative since fiscal 2016
Donations and 400
350
Supporting Causes
300
GRI 3-3, 201-1, 203-1, 413-1 250
200
Through corporate donations, fundraising and volunteering,
WBA’s businesses and employees give back to the communities
150
where we are proud to operate. By investing in our communities,
we maintain trust and support our brands’ reputations. 100
50
Our corporate giving strategy is focused on donating to organizations
with health programs that align with our core business and ESG priorities, 0
as well as groups that work on social welfare and education issues. Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
The Company has strong processes and policies in place to thoughtfully
Cash Non-cash
manage community investments and maximize impact. Walgreens uses
a community investment management system to promote best practices,
transparency, alignment with business units, compliance and consistent
reporting across the organization. How the Company Areas impacted by the
contributed in Company's fiscal 2023
Our team members remain committed as ever to our communities.
Walgreens offered its teams a variety of opportunities to participate in fiscal 2023 contributions
volunteer events anchored in health and wellness, including physical and
4 8
% 7 % 5
emotional well-being and skills development. These volunteer opportunities % %
took place in communities, at the Deerfield or downtown offices or remotely.
The Company’s direct contributions totaled $42.4 million in fiscal 2023.
Our accumulated giving since fiscal 2016, the first year that WBA collected
company-wide data, totals $373.3 million. We collect and report community
data in line with the model and methodology of Business for Societal Impact 62
%
(formerly London Benchmarking Group). 27 % 63 %
Cash Health
In-kind Social welfare
Employee time Education
Management costs Other
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 46
)snoillim(
$
DISCOVER
Corporate giving data is available
in the ESG section of our website.
24 %
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Supporting causes
GRI 3-3, 203-1, 413-1
WBA’s businesses are proud to support our long-term
partner organizations through fundraising campaigns each year.
Our businesses, community affairs and corporate responsibility
teams; retail pharmacies; and business resource groups (BRGs)
consult with our community and charity partners when deciding
to participate in fundraising.
We continue to work to eradicate the growing health inequities experienced
by children, families and underserved communities. We continue to offer
options for our employees, customers and patients to show their support
for our fundraising campaigns.
Causes impacted by the Company’s fiscal 2023 contributions
$32.4 million $1.5 million
Red Nose Day (£1.2 million)
The Prince's Trust
$10.9 million
Vitamin Angels $887,000
(£730,000)
$6.1 million Macmillan Cancer Support
LLS and Komen
$364,000
$1.1 million (€343,780)
American Heart Association Irish Cancer Society
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 47
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Red Nose Day
We celebrated Red Nose Day for the ninth consecutive year as the exclusive
retailer of the nationwide campaign to help end the cycle of childhood
poverty. Red Nose Day has raised more than $365 million since launching
in the U.S. in 2015. Of that total, Walgreens has raised $200 million. The
campaign has impacted the lives of 32 million children.
Vitamin Angels, Global
Since 2013, Vitamin Angels and Walgreens have partnered to improve
health and nutrition for pregnant women and young children in need.
Walgreens donates 1 percent of retail vitamin and supplement sales to Vitamin
Angels and in fiscal 2023, reached $10.9 million in donations from vitamin
sales. In addition to supporting their global programs that reach women
and children in 65 countries, Walgreens' partnership also supports Vitamin
Angels’ domestic prenatal program, reaching pregnant women in need
across all 50 U.S. states and Puerto Rico. There are approximately 1 million
underserved pregnant women in the U.S. with limited access to prenatal
vitamins and minerals. Through the support of our partnership, Vitamin
Angels reaches 250,000 underserved pregnant women per year, across all
50 states. In 2022, Vitamin Angels and Walgreens set a partnership goal to
“DOUBLE OUR IMPACT” and reach 500,000 pregnant women in the U.S.
by the end of 2024.
Originally starting in 11 locations on the South and West Sides of Chicago,
the prenatal program has expanded to increase distribution in 12 additional
markets across the U.S. There were over 1,900 voucher redemptions after
launching on June 1, 2023.
In 2023, our partnership achieved a major milestone celebrating 10 years
of partnership and reached over 400 million women and children with
life-changing vitamins.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 48
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Susan G. Komen and The Leukemia & Lymphoma Society, U.S. American Red Cross and Walgreens Hawaii Wildfires Response
Walgreens collaborates with Susan G. Komen and The Leukemia & Walgreens continues to partner with the American Red Cross to help
Lymphoma Society (LLS) to enable research on tough-to-treat cancers and provide products and monetary donations to help aid in natural disaster
increase access to care. In 2019, Walgreens pledged to contribute more than relief and support affected communities. In October 2022, Walgreens
$25 million to the two organizations over a five-year period. We are proud donated $500,000 to the American Red Cross Hurricanes 2022 Fund to help
to report that we exceeded that goal in fiscal 2022. with relief efforts following Hurricanes Ian and Fiona that hit communities
in Florida and Puerto Rico.
For the ninth year, Walgreens team members participated in the annual
LLS Light The Night fundraising events. These events took place in markets Following the devastating wildfires in Maui, Walgreens donated $25,000
across the U.S. with more than 5,000 team members uniting to celebrate worth of products to the American Red Cross to deliver to survivors of
those who are fighting blood cancers and honoring those we have lost. the fires. Walgreens customers in Arizona, California, Oregon, Hawaii and
Washington were also able to contribute to the American Red Cross Hawaii
In partnership with LLS, Walgreens has 77 LLS-certified blood cancer
Wildfires Fund by donating in-store via PIN pad, which ultimately raised
pharmacies as of Aug. 31, 2023, with specially-trained pharmacists helping
over $500,000. Walgreens also made a $100,000 donation to The Hawaii
patients manage side effects and adhere to medications.
Community Foundation Maui Strong Fund and provided an additional
$5,000 worth of products to the Na Aikane O Maui Cultural Center.
In addition to donations, Walgreens was on the front lines assisting community
Macmillan Cancer Support, UK members affected by the fires. We were one of the first corporations to offer
aid, setting up pop-up stations in Lahaina to help residents fill prescriptions,
In fiscal 2023, Boots UK raised a total of £730,000 ($887,000) for Macmillan
and covered all copay costs for uninsured residents through a $1 million relief
Cancer Support. Now in its 14th year, Boots UK’s partnership with Macmillan
fund. We also flew in seven Hawaii licensed pharmacists from the mainland,
Cancer Support has raised almost £22 million ($26,739,000) to support
24 technicians and three store managers to aid Maui Walgreens pharmacists
people living with cancer, including funding a Macmillan nurse for a year. We
and team members. Maui Walgreens team members directly impacted by
have over 2,600 specially trained Boots Macmillan Information Pharmacists
the fires were able to access emergency relief funds through the Walgreens
(BMIPs) who are now accessible through selected pharmacy stores. Boots
Benefit Fund.
UK’s BMIPs are estimated to have collectively conducted almost 76,000
in-store and virtual conversations and consultations in fiscal 2023. For
those unable to visit a Boots pharmacy, they can access a Boots Macmillan
The Prince's Trust1
Information Pharmacist online from the comfort of their home. 2023 also
marks the 10-year anniversary of Boots Macmillan Beauty Advisors (BMBAs),
Since 2019, Boots UK has worked in partnership with The Prince’s Trust
and we now have 585 BMBAs who are trained to support the physical side
to empower the next generation. Together, they support young people in
effects of cancer, who this year have had around 27,500 conversations
communities across the UK get into work by providing opportunities that help
with customers.
young people develop their skills, confidence and self-esteem, regardless of
Boots also has two pharmacists integrated into the Macmillan Clinical background. To date, the partnership has supported over 500 young people
Advisory Board as Macmillan fellows. They work at Boots and also dedicate through employability programs, including Kickstart, Get Into and World of
time to work at Macmillan. Specifically, these fellows work to address Work programs. Boots UK and their customers have also raised over £2
the issues of delayed diagnosis and canceled and rescheduled treatment million ($2,431,000) for The Prince’s Trust since the start of the partnership.
that resulted from the COVID-19 pandemic.
In July 2023, Boots UK launched the Soltan Skin Safety campaign in
partnership with Carol Vorderman, a UK media celebrity, to promote key
Boots, Soltan and Macmillan messaging such as Boots new Soltan Sun Safety
Advisors across stores, the Mole Scanning Service, Ongoing Macmillan
partnership and the three 3 Cs safety tips — cream, cover and check —
to help keep customers and their families safe in the sun. 1 The Prince's Trust will be renamed to The King's Trust.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 49
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
The Hygiene Bank Irish Cancer Society
Since 2020, Boots, No7 Beauty Company and The Hygiene Bank have Boots has partnered with the Irish Cancer Society since 2012, with the aim
worked together to provide essential toiletries and personal care products of increasing awareness, helping support people affected by cancer and
to those in need across the UK. promoting cancer prevention. Both Boots pharmacists and Boots Cancer
Beauty Advisors have been given special training to be more comfortable,
With the continuous cost-of-living challenge the number of people
confident and helpful when providing both medical and emotional support
in hygiene poverty has risen to 3.1 million UK adults.
to people living with cancer.
Supporting hygiene poverty in local communities isn’t a new mission for Boots.
Every year, we hold the Boots Night Walk in support of the Irish Cancer
In fact, soap was one of the first non-medicinal products that Jesse Boot sold
Society’s Night Nurses, who provide end of life care to cancer patients in their
because he recognized that basic hygiene is the foundation of good health.
homes. The 5K walk took place on September 9, 2022, and participants could
Since the inception of our partnership Boots and No7 Beauty Company have attend at Dublin’s Phoenix Park or remotely at their chosen location. This year,
donated over 1.5 million products and have over 700 donation locations the walk raised over $108,000 equating to 276 nights of care.
across the UK, a number which is continually increasing.
Boots also supports the Irish Cancer Society during its biggest
Boots believes that every child should have access to basic hygiene fundraising initiative which sees thousands of volunteers selling Daffodil
products. Boots donated over 145,000 additional hygiene essential products Day merchandise and collecting donations, with Boots stores also selling
to The Hygiene Bank as part of a back-to-school campaign, which directly Daffodil Day pins. The funds go towards providing vital support services to
benefited children and their families. In Ireland, Boots partnered with Hygiene cancer patients and their loved ones, as well as funding life-changing cancer
Hub, whose goal is to tackle hygiene poverty one helping hand at a time. In research. In fiscal 2023, Boots Ireland customers and team members raised
fiscal 2023 1,100 kilograms of items were donated to the Hygiene Hub and $135,000 for the Irish Cancer Society’s Daffodil Day.
distributed to local organizations through donations made by customers, via
in-store drop-off points, and through direct donations by Boots.
Boots Charitable Trust
The Boots Charitable Trust is a registered charity established in 1970
that is wholly funded by Boots UK and currently supports work across
Nottinghamshire. The Trust offers grants of up to £10,000 ($12,000) for
projects addressing health access, social care and community development.
In fiscal 2023, the Boots Charitable Trust provided £250,000 ($304,000)
of funding to 28 different projects.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 50
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Donations through myWalgreens
GRI 3-3, 203-1
Using the Walgreens app or online capability on walgreens.com,
customers can donate their Walgreens Cash rewards (loyalty
rewards accumulated through Walgreens purchases) to local,
regional and national nonprofit organizations. Over 19,000
myWalgreens members have donated their cash rewards
to these organizations.
Walgreens features a rotation of local nonprofit organizations each quarter
to customers based on their preferred store location. This allows customers
to support a variety of causes, as well as understand the important work
these nonprofits are doing in their local area. In fiscal 2023, customers
donated more than $100,000 through myWalgreens.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 51
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Information
Preventive health services
GRI 3-3, 413-1
and Education
Through our partnerships with government agencies
GRI 3-3, 413-1 and nonprofit organizations, our businesses around the
world support efforts to educate and provide preventive
care to our communities.
Here are examples of these activities during fiscal 2023:
Health access: awareness and advocacy
GRI 3-3
We continue to advocate for policies that expand prescribing authority
for pharmacists to improve outcomes and increase accessibility to care.
This includes the ability to provide clinical advice and test and treat by
initiating certain prescriptions after an administered test registers positive.
It also includes advocating for pharmacy technicians, who are often
prohibited from performing responsibilities they are qualified to do, like
administering vaccines. Allowing pharmacy technicians to fulfill these
responsibilities will provide pharmacists more time for patient care,
thus improving patient outcomes.
Dementia awareness
Boots strives to ensure its community members living with dementia
feel supported and respected in store, which is why we make our stores
as dementia-inclusive as possible. To help provide a dementia-inclusive
environment, Boots UK, Boots Opticians and Boots Ireland team members
are trained in understanding the common challenges a person living with
dementia may encounter in a store environment. Those with training identify
themselves with a Dementia Friends badge in the UK and a Dementia
Understand Together badge in the Republic of Ireland. As of Aug. 31, 2023,
Boots UK and Opticians had more than 19,600 team members that identify as
Dementia Friends, with one in almost every Boots store available to support
customers, and over 1,900 team members (90% of team members) in Boots
Ireland. Boots Ireland was also awarded the Business Innovation category
in the National Age Friendly awards in October 2022 in recognition
of our work on the Dementia Understand Together campaign.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 52
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Mental health awareness media arts, spoken word or creative writing. Students are asked to create
something inspired by the issues and topics impacting them, such as gun
Access to mental healthcare is growing in demand in the UK
violence, gender identity, self-esteem, social justice and more. 2023's
and the U.S. On average, 1 in 6 people in England (UK) and 1 contest brought in more than 4,500 student art submissions from teens
in 5 people in the U.S. struggle with a mental health condition. across the U.S. More than 25 percent of entries addressed the topic of
We are striving to meet the needs of our team members, school shootings, while another 30 percent of entries tackled a topic related
to mental health. This year also saw another record with more than 46,000
customers and patients.
votes received for People’s Champ winners.
Walgreens worked in collaboration with the National Council for
On the heels of launching a workplace toolkit with Mental Health America
Mental Wellbeing and the American Pharmacists Association to develop
(MHA), Walgreens launched its Back-to-School campaign with MHA in
a specialized training for pharmacy staff in mental health literacy,
August 2023. MHA’s Young Mental Health Leaders Council provided
understanding risk factors and warning signs for mental health and
feedback on the toolkit to make it useful and applicable for students.
substance use concerns and strategies for how to help someone in both
Co-authored and sponsored by Walgreens, the downloadable collection
crisis and noncrisis situations. Walgreens completed its first phase of Mental
of articles, expert advice and resources offer support during the often
Health First Aid training, administered by the National Council for Mental
rocky back-to-school adjustment period. The resource is also being made
Wellbeing, for pharmacists in 2020. This specialized training program was
available at the more than 800 schools Walgreens partners with through
then opened to all Walgreens pharmacy team members in fiscal 2022.
the Expressions Challenge Initiative.
Since then, more than 1,675 Walgreens pharmacy team members have
participated.
Boots UK pharmacists in England receive Zero Suicide Alliance training
as part of The Pharmacy Quality Scheme within the Community Pharmacy
Contractual Framework. In addition, Boots has more than 190 team
members in key roles who have received Mental Health First Aider training
and over 2,000 managers who have received Mental Health Awareness
training to better support their teammates and themselves in their roles.
Through the Boots Health Hub, we offer a range of advice and support
including access to talking therapy via SupportRoom, allowing our
customers to access self help tools and communicate with a therapist,
coach or mentor via in-app messaging and one-to-one video sessions as
well as access to a virtual GP via Livi.
Boots Ireland continues to partner with See Change — The National Mental
Walgreens continues to bolster Expressions, a platform established by
Health Stigma Reduction Partnership. Eleven line managers received
Walgreens to educate, empower and equip young people and their
training during fiscal 2023 in a Line Manager Mental Health workshop as
community with insights and resources on issues impacting teens. Since
part of the See Change’s Workplace program, and 40 of our team members
its inception in 2009, Expressions has engaged over 200,000 teens and
attended a ‘Living with Mental Health’ session delivered by See Change
partnered with 1,200 schools across 50 states and territories. Expressions
ambassadors as part of Learning At Work week. Boots Ireland has proudly
was created to empower teen participants to use art to voice opinions on
supported the Green Ribbon campaign by promoting it to both customers
issues most important to them. The National Institute of Health has proven
and team members across the country and was delighted to sponsor 10,000
that the therapeutic benefits of artistic expression have the potential to
‘positiviTea’ packs to help promote National Time To Talk Day, which takes
decrease anxiety and feelings of anger and depression.
place in September, a day designed to encourage all to take some time to
Each year, Walgreens holds the Expressions Challenge, an artistic challenge check in on team members and friends. More than 38,000 green ribbons
open for high school students to submit art in four categories for the chance were available to customers throughout all 94 Boots stores throughout
to win a monetary prize. Students can submit an entry for either visual arts, Ireland, which supported and promoted conversations on mental health.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 53
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Supporting survivors of domestic violence Smoking cessation
Boots continues to participate in the Ask for ANI campaign, GRI 3-3
which allows those at risk or suffering from abuse to discreetly
signal that they need help and to access support. ANI is a code WBA is committed to our pharmacy services playing a role in helping people
word for “action needed immediately.” By asking for ANI, a quit tobacco. Walgreens and Boots pharmacists are trained to support a
patient’s attempt to quit, and Boots offers a private Smoke Less service
trained pharmacy team member will offer a private space to the
as well as an NHS-commissioned service in some locations. In England,
person and discuss whether they need to speak to the police
Boots provides those referred upon leaving the hospital with a national NHS
or would like help accessing support services such as national
commissioned service that supports patients to stop smoking. We also offer
or local domestic abuse helplines. The scheme has been digital support tools in addition to prescription and over-the-counter products.
introduced to complement the Safe Spaces initiative by the crisis
Walgreens continues to offer a quit smoking page which provides resources
charity Hestia and its UK SAYS NO MORE campaign.
to help patients to find the expert tips, treatments and tools they need to
stop smoking.
Since Boots launched the Ask for ANI campaign in partnership with
More than 483 team members completed a stop-smoking program during
the Home Office in the UK in 2020, we have supported many people
fiscal 2023. The program includes a personalized plan, talking to a trained
experiencing domestic abuse through the scheme. The training is required
pharmacist and receiving free nicotine replacement therapy patches or gum.
for all new pharmacy team members and the scheme is available at all Boots
Walgreens has continued its policy of deemphasizing tobacco products
pharmacies as well as in other community pharmacies.
and does not sell e-cigarettes. We require age verification from anyone
Boots Ireland operates a similar campaign that initially began in 2020 amid
purchasing tobacco products in our U.S. stores and maintain a zero-tolerance
COVID-19 with Safe Ireland, a national social change agency. This campaign
policy prohibiting the sale of tobacco products to those under 21. Store team
has now been extended into a nationwide initiative by the Irish Pharmacy
members are trained on this policy, and any team member violating the policy
Union, and Boots is now part of the Safe Pharmacy program, offering a safe
is subject to immediate termination.
space in our pharmacies where persons experiencing domestic abuse can
get access to a phone and contact details for local support services.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 54
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Prescription
Prescription misuse prevention is a priority for our pharmacy staff. Our status as a leader in the retail pharmacy industry and our expansive reach across
communities allow us to play a significant role in addressing the opioid epidemic. The WBA board of directors continues to oversee our management
Misuse of risks related to the dispensing of prescription opioid medication and our multimillion-dollar effort to help combat overdose-related deaths.
Prevention Walgreens maintains a Good Faith Dispensing policy, which provides the Walgreens continues to participate in the U.S. Drug Enforcement
foundation for our pharmacists to understand their roles and responsibilities Administration’s (DEA) National Prescription Drug Take Back Day, held
when dispensing prescriptions for controlled substances. This policy requires twice a year, when select Walgreens stores throughout the country serve
GRI 3-3, 203-1 a pharmacist to evaluate the patient, prescriber, drug, applicable law and as collection points for law enforcement to collect unwanted, unused or
surrounding circumstances prior to making an appropriate professional expired medication for safe disposal.
decision whether to dispense a prescription for a controlled substance.
Boots UK has developed and launched Patient Safety First materials on
Walgreens supports our pharmacists’ right to refuse to fill controlled substance
opioids for its pharmacy staff. The learning modules focus on compassionate
prescriptions in accordance with their corresponding responsibility, if, among
care practices and help our team members understand substance misuse
other reasons, prescribers do not provide sufficient supporting information.
from a holistic perspective while learning to recognize the symptoms
Walgreens supports Centers for Disease Control (CDC) recommendations by of those who may be abusing.
educating patients about naloxone, a lifesaving overdose antidote, when they
The following are updates on our progress on ongoing initiatives
are dispensed high doses of certain prescription opioids and may be at risk
to combat prescription drug abuse in the U.S.:
of accidental overdose.
LIFESAVING OPIOID OVERDOSE SAFE MEDICATION TIME DELAY, HIGH-SECURITY
NARCAN® SPRAY DISPOSAL PHARMACY SAFES
In fiscal 2023, Walgreens announced
it is taking an important step to increase
access to and education around naloxone
by announcing that over-the-counter (OTC)
NARCAN® Nasal Spray will be available at
NEARLY 2.4M+ 576 METRIC 2,468 METRIC ALL SIGNIFICANTLY
Walgreens stores and online starting on
1,550 take-home safe TONNES TONNES U.S. stores have REDUCED
Sept. 5, 2023, with nationwide availability
safe medication medication of unwanted of unwanted safes installed. pharmacy robberies
on Sept. 7. To educate the public on how to
disposal kiosks disposal kits medication safety medication safely and burglaries and
use this lifesaving nasal spray, Walgreens
in Walgreens shipped to stores disposed of in disposed of improved team
is working with End Overdose, a non profit
locations since May 2019 fiscal 2023 since 2016 member safety.
organization dedicated to ending drug-related
overdose deaths through education, medical
intervention and public awareness.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 55
Healthy and
Inclusive Workplace
Our Targets
In fiscal 2023:
WBA International: Walgreens: Increase
Maintain baseline of women in leadership
women in leadership from by 2.1 percentage points
fiscal 2023. Exceeded. over previous year’s
baseline. Exceeded.
Walgreens: Increase Walgreens: Increase
representation of people people of color by 0.7
with disabilities across percentage point over
the company by 0.7 previous year's baseline.
percentage point over Partially achieved,
previous year’s baseline. 0.5 percentage point.
Exceeded.
OOvveerrvviieeww GGoovveerrnnaannccee HHeeaalltthhyy CCoommmmuunniittiieess Healthy and Inclusive Workplace HHeeaalltthhyy PPllaanneett SSuussttaaiinnaabbllee MMaarrkkeettppllaaccee AAppppeennddiicceess
A Letter From...
Sal Venegas
Interim Chief Human Resources Officer
In a world where we face unprecedented challenges, one thing could not be more certain. Our people are our greatest asset.
Therefore, it goes without saying that their health and safety is at the very top of our list of priorities. While our pharmacists and
other team members in stores, laboratories, across our supply chain and in our support offices serve patients’ and consumers’
needs globally around the clock, we are totally committed to providing them with a healthy and safe workplace. We have listened
to thousands of team members and experts, and I am delighted that this year we can share important updates on new and
existing initiatives to do all we can to make our workplace a healthy, safe and inclusive one.
Our 331,000 team members are as diverse as the consumers they I am excited to share our progress, where we continue to strive to
serve, so we place enormous pride on ensuring that the support that create an environment where our team members can be their own
we offer represents their needs. Recognizing the importance authentic selves, providing additional levels of support, personally
of a richly diverse workforce and an inclusive culture remains central and professionally.
to our strategy, and as a responsible employer, we reimagined our
Our team members play an active role in making these commitments
Employee Assistance program, provided new mental health support,
come alive, such as the Boots and Walgreens teams supporting
and for those who have felt the effects of the cost-of-living crisis
LGBTQ+ communities with new guidance, pronoun badges at Boots,
the most, made extra support available to working parents who
and for all our team members in the U.S. by breaking the Guinness
have needed us to show up for them. The recognition from global
World Record for ‘most online guided meditations in 24 hours!’
organizations that Stefano and Tim mentioned earlier reassures us all
that we are on the right track, but we will not stop there. Throughout our history, knowledge, learning and development have
underpinned our growth. Continuing to invest in our amazing team
Our commitment to health equity is embedded into our culture of
remains our utmost priority. Our business relies on their excellent
inclusion, providing a guiding force that keeps us on track. I am thankful
support for our customers and patients and we are committed to
to our partners and dedicated team members for their remarkable
remaining at the forefront of empowering the next generation of
participation in our This is Me self-identification program which enables
healthcare and pharmacy leaders and professionals.
us to better understand our people’s diverse needs, build connections
through similarities and find strength in our differences.
In fiscal 2023, we also saw the continuous growth of our thriving
BRGS, a global network of 24 BRGs and over 6,200 team members.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 57
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Employee
An undeniable correlation exists between employee wellness and and organized stockroom and lowering product stored in the stockroom.
a business' overall health. Health, safety and well-being are core Stores can effectively reduce the risk of an incident occurring and achieve
a safety focused stockroom environment.
Health, Safety to WBA’s purpose and heritage to inspire more joyful lives through
better health. We recognize that each of our team members has Walgreens has programs in place to support customers and team members
and Well-Being their own needs, challenges, hopes and dreams. We have created through incident management. Our Customer Care Advocate Program
proactively offers support to customers who have reported an in-store
a workplace where team members feel supported, respected
incident. Our Nurse Triage Program is an upstream process for team
and celebrated for being their authentic selves.
members that provides timely quality care following a workplace injury.
GRI 2-26, 3-3, 401-2, 401-3, 403-1, 403-2, 403-3, 403-4,
Through the service, team members with workplace injuries can call and
403-5, 403-6, 403-7
speak to a registered nurse to determine the appropriate first level of care.
Workplace safety
GRI 2-26, 3-3, 403-1, 403-2, 403-3, 403-4, 403-5, 403-7
WBA encourages open dialogue and constructive feedback from our
stakeholders, including employees, to help ensure we achieve best practices.
We also require all segments, businesses and corporate functions to have
formal governance processes in place for health and safety matters in the
operations for which they are responsible. Please see page 16 for how
we have engaged with priority stakeholders.
To create a safe and productive workplace, employees across our
businesses are provided with avenues to report questions or concerns,
including contacting management; calling a toll-free, confidential hotline;
submitting an online report; contacting the Compliance Officer or department
and/or contacting human resources.
The safety of our employees is of the utmost importance to WBA. As such,
we routinely look for ways to prioritize safety and education trainings.
In fiscal 2023, Boots UK continued evolving our digital incident reporting
management system. We consolidated two third-party management systems
that managed different parts of the business into one, all-encompassing
system. This has helped to streamline the data collection process and
makes action against incident reports more effective.
In Boots stores, routine safety inspections enable a real-time view of
compliance. This program continues to develop, and plans to simplify it
to be more practical and effective are being developed.
Boots UK is working with Primary Authorities to gain assurances around
workplace safety. Working alongside Primary Authorities has helped Boots
to review existing safety protocols and to work towards the development
of new pieces of assured advice.
Maintaining a safe stockroom environment helps protect our Walgreens
team members, which is the reason for implementing our Safety Focused
Stockroom program. This program prioritizes maintaining a clean, neat,
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 58
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Employee health and benefits To support our goal of Health Equity, Walgreens launched a new virtual
primary care provider service in fiscal 2023. The program expands our health
GRI 3-3, 401-21, 403-6
care ecosystem to ensure team members living in "care deserts" have access
to primary care providers. Many of these underserved populations include
All of WBA’s businesses offer robust benefits and well-being programs
traditionally Black, brown and rural communities. The new service is delivered
and, where applicable, healthcare for employees at the national, state or
by Transcarent 98point6 and expands access to virtual primary care doctors
regional level, because plan design, coverage laws and regulations vary
for those individuals without consistent access to in-person primary care
by country, state or local level. Here, we will cover three of our largest
doctors. So far, there have been more than 4,200 interactions with steady
employers: Walgreens, Boots UK and Boots Opticians, which together
monthly increases between patients and doctors following the programs
account for approximately 87 percent of our 331,000 employees.
launch in mid-fiscal 2023.
WBA's comprehensive benefits packages are designed to support the In the UK, Boots and No7 Beauty Company became the first health and
financial, mental and physical well-being of employees and their families. beauty businesses to achieve a Menopause-Friendly Employer Accreditation.
Our businesses continuously evaluate their benefits and well-being offerings We were recognized for our approach to raising awareness, breaking down
through measurement of utilization, cost modeling, competitive benchmarking stigma and building confidence on menopause in the workplace. This has
and annual team member surveys. Additionally, the board of directors included training for individuals and managers, updated policy and guidance
provides oversight of human capital matters with responsibility for notes, developing a support network and the business covering the cost
general oversight of compensation and benefits programs. of HRT for those who chose to access it.
For full-time U.S. employees, Walgreens offers healthcare coverage, Beyond Walgreens, Boots UK and Boots Opticians, we continue to offer a
insurance benefits and access to Life365 Employee Assistance Programs variety of support services to team members around the world. For example,
(EAP) and Be Well Connected, as well as paid parental leave, paid leave and in Alliance Healthcare Germany, all team members were again offered flu and
paid time off. Walgreens also offers robust Financial Well-Being programs COVID-19 vaccinations.
that include a 401(k) plan with company match and a stock purchase plan.
Continuing from the offering’s introduction last year, team members enrolled
in a Walgreens Health Plan were offered a new consolidated benefit
Supporting working parents
program through Vida Health, which matches participants with a health
coach or therapist to help make lifestyle changes for a happier, healthier GRI 401-3
life. Dependents of those enrolled in the Health Plan also receive access
to select benefits. WBA prioritizes benefit offerings that allow team members to succeed both
at work and at home. In many cases, that means making space for family.
Part-time Walgreens employees in the U.S. are eligible for several benefits,
Both Walgreens and Boots offer competitive parental leave benefits
including 401(k) with employer match, Prescription Savings Club, annual flu
regardless of gender and inclusive of adoption and surrogacy.
shots, Be Well Connected, Life365 EAP and others.
In fiscal 2023, Walgreens made updates to their family forming benefits.
Boots UK and Opticians offers a range of benefits to full- and part-time
For fertility treatments, coverage was doubled from $25,000 to $50,000,
employees, including EAP, loyalty awards, pension programs, life insurance
and the requirement of a ‘medically necessary’ diagnosis was removed.
options and paid time off. In addition, using a flexible program, team members
A new offering this year includes surrogacy and adoption support.
can personalize voluntary benefits across health and well-being, travel,
Employees can receive $10,000 to cover costs of surrogacy or adoption.
lifestyle and financial categories. Other international WBA businesses,
Following a successful launch of the WBA Parenting/Caregiver business
including Thailand, also utilize EAP.
resource group (BRG) in 2022, the group grew in fiscal 2023 to provide
A new offering for 2023 was the development of a LGBTQ+ benefits guide for communication and support for parents and caretakers across the network.
all Walgreens employees. Walgreens Total Rewards Team created the guide More information about the initiatives taken by the Parenting/Caregiver
to give team members an overview of the benefits that are typically important BRG can be found on page 67.
to the LGBTQ+ community. This includes PrEP treatment and therapies, family
1 GRI 401-2 required disclosures are within the Deloitte
& Touche LLP review scope as detailed on pages 119-120. forming benefits and new innovations in health plans, among other benefits.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 59
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Mental health support for employees Supporting employees in crisis
GRI 103-2, 103-3, 403-5, 403-6 GRI 403-5, 403-6
At WBA, we know that living a full, productive life depends on more than We recognize that many crises have financial impacts which have a direct
our physical health – caring for our mental health is essential. We strive to impact on the quality of life of our team members. Supporting team members’
foster a workplace where every team member is supported and celebrated financial health through their crisis greatly impacts their overall well-being,
for being their authentic self, is treated with dignity and respect and has including the need to mitigate stress and enable healthy choices.
access to tools, resources and support for their well-being. We are focused
The Walgreen Benefit Fund in the U.S. and the Boots Benevolent Fund in the
on building a culture defined by empathy, compassion and authenticity.
UK — both of which are non-profit entities and funded by charitable donations
In 2023, Walgreens expanded access to JourneyLive, an organization that — assist current team members and retirees experiencing financial hardship.
provides resources and tools to support individuals on their mental health
During its fiscal year ending April 30, 2023, the Walgreens Benefit Fund
journeys. The program can now be accessed by all employees and those
provided $2,713,535 in aid to over 1,922 applicants. The Boots Benevolent
in their direct ecosystem. This expansion was made to help employees and
Fund supported 241 employees with over £225,000 ($273,000) in grants
also the people in their lives to symbiotically live happier, healthier lives.
and interest-free loans for fiscal 2023 as of Aug. 31, 2023.
Boots UK’s Mental Health First Aid training program continued in fiscal 2023
following its expansion to critical roles last year, which included pharmacy
support and supply chain management. In fiscal 2023, the program was also
rolled out fully in Boots Ireland with 60 trained Mental Health First Aiders.
Boots UK also delivered Mental Health In the Workplace awareness training
to over 2,000 managers in fiscal 2023, including managers in stores, supply
chain and support office. This training increases the confidence and capability
of our leaders in respect of mental health and many delegates have reported
how the training has enabled them to better support team members.
Walgreens, Boots UK and Boots Ireland continued to put emphasis on
building specialized expertise around mental health through expansion of
Mental Health First Aid training. The Walgreens program, in partnership
with the National Council for Mental Wellbeing and American Pharmacists
Association (APhA), is a four-hour continuing education accredited course,
which approximately 1,675 Walgreens pharmacy team members have
completed to date.
To encourage engagement with team member resources and continue
reducing stigma around mental health, both Walgreens and Boots deployed
awareness and prevention campaigns throughout the year. In May 2023,
Walgreens hosted a program for Mental Health Month in partnership with
Journey Live. As a part of the campaign, Walgreens facilitated an online
meditation event that broke the Guinness World Record for the “most views
for an online guided meditation video in 24 hours on a bespoke platform.”
A total of 14,460 Walgreens employees viewed the online guided meditation
video on May 22, 2023, earning Walgreens an official world record title.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 60
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Diversity, Equity
Ranked 46 on the 2023 Fair360 (formerly DiversityInc)
Top 50 Companies for Diversity (Walgreens)
and Inclusion
MORE INFO
For more information about
2023 Seramount Top Companies for Executive Women
our supplier diversity efforts,
GRI 2-7, 3-3, 405-1, 413-1
please see page 90.
2023 NOD Leading Disability Employer
Our global diversity, equity and inclusion strategy
GRI 3-3
WBA’s business, which includes more than 331,000 employees in nine 2023 Seramount Inclusion Index – Pinnacle Index Company
countries, consists of team members with a wide array of backgrounds,
cultures, experiences, insights and perspectives. It is our goal to ensure
Placed 139th in the Stonewall Workplace Equality Index (UK)
our people feel safe and secure while being able to live their most authentic
for LGBTQ+ inclusion (Boots and No7 Beauty Company) and
lives as WBA employees. Our mission is to attract, develop and engage
received a Bronze Award in the Global Index
employees and partners who reflect the diverse customers and communities
we serve. We believe diversity should be at the forefront of our work and The Pride Alliance UK BRG was shortlisted in the top 10
it is a core driver of success for our businesses. nominations for ‘Outstanding LGBTQIA+ Network of the Year’
at British Diversity Awards in London and was a finalist for
Expanded from fiscal 2022, our global DEI strategy is now centered on
Network of the Year at the British LGBT Awards
four pillars: 1) building talented and diverse teams, 2) understanding our
environmental and social impact, 3) building inclusive brands and services,
Boots and No7 Beauty Company was a finalist in the Menopause
4) and continuously learning.
Friendly Employer Awards for Best Training Initiative and
During fiscal 2023, we put great effort into focus areas like leadership Best-Trained Workforce
accountability and transparency in building talented and diverse teams,
the expansion of our business resource groups (BRGs), driving and
enhancing supplier diversity initiatives and ongoing organizational Fiscal 2023 workforce DEI goals
learning and awareness.
WBA International: Maintain baseline of women in leadership
In fiscal 2023, Boots and No7 Beauty Company created a combined
from fiscal 2023. Exceeded.
Boots and No7 Beauty Company DEI Steering Committee. This change
reflects a new, “stronger together” business structure and integrated
DEI strategy. The new steering committee includes leaders from both
companies and seeks to integrate a comprehensive DEI strategy. Walgreens: Increase women in leadership by 2.1 percentage
points over previous year’s baseline. Exceeded.
Our DEI efforts in 2023 were a success. Not only is our workplace
stronger and more inclusive, but we have also received awards and
Walgreens: Increase representation of people with disabilities
recognition, including:
across the company by 0.7 percentage point over previous year’s
baseline. Exceeded.
Awarded Disability:IN’s Employer of the Year for 2023.
Also, scored 100 percent for the seventh year in a row from
Walgreens: Increase people of color by 0.7 percentage point over
a joint initiative of Disability:IN and the American Association
previous year's baseline. Partially achieved, 0.5 percentage point.
of People with Disabilities (Walgreens)
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 61
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Leadership accountability model As part of the TWG program, Walgreens also provides a 13-week training
program by matching participants with job coaches using a combination
At WBA, we believe all levels should be held responsible for developing a
of classroom work and on-the-job training to prepare participants to become
culture of inclusion. As such, we’ve tied certain ESG targets to compensation
temporary hires. Following the training program some participants are eligible
as part of our leadership accountability model. For more information on these
to become permanent team members at up to 13 Walgreens distribution
compensation policies, please see our Proxy statement.
centers or regional warehouses across the U.S.
In fiscal 2023, Walgreens partnered with Neurodiversity in the Workplace
(NITW), an organization which designs plans and programs for companies to
Diverse Advocate Program
recruit, attract, hire and retain neurodiverse talent. In fiscal 2023, Walgreens
Our leaders are equipped with the tools to develop and grow talent. We also hired its first cohort of program participants and is eager to see this program
ensure that these leaders are fully engaged in the mentorship of individuals continue to feed into the talent pipeline.
at all levels across the business.
Walgreens was honored to be recognized as Disability:IN’s 2023 Employer
In fiscal 2022, Walgreens launched the Diverse Advocate Program pilot. of the Year following seven consecutive years of recognition from Disability:IN
This program was designed to strengthen diverse representation in the and The American Association of People with Disabilities with a 100%
management-level talent pipeline through both mentoring and sponsorship. score on its Disability Equality Index. Walgreens has always placed a high
Following the success of last year’s pilot program, in fiscal 2023, we fully importance on disability inclusion with programs like REDI and TWG as well
launched the Diverse Advocate’s program at scale. A total of 45 leaders as with partnerships with organizations like NITW and Turning Pointe Autism
and 45 individuals across the business participated in the program. Foundation. We look forward to continuing our disability inclusion efforts
and will actively seek out opportunities to expand our efforts.
Following a successful pilot in fiscal 2022, in fiscal 2023 Boots and No7
Beauty Company rolled out a reverse mentoring program for senior leaders. In fiscal 2023, WBA launched a new Self-ID campaign entitled “This is Me.”
By partnering them with a volunteer mentor from one of the business The campaign was designed to encourage team members to voluntarily and
resource groups, they share personal experiences, learn together and partner confidentially self-identify a disability, sexual orientation, gender identity and
in bringing about change, thus enabling an improved culture of diversity, other self-identifications. Self-identification information helps us understand
equity and inclusion. our workforce better – it informs our programs, services and benefits and
helps us create a more inclusive and accessible workplace in which everyone
has the opportunity to reach their full potential.
Disability inclusion model First introduced in July 2022 by Boots and No7 Beauty Company,
in FY23, we continued to develop the Workplace Support Passport to
GRI 3-3, 413-1
support conversations between team members and managers about
Disability inclusion remains an increasingly important topic at WBA, and disabilities, medical conditions, impairments or other key life stages such
we are doing everything possible to create a safe, inclusive and accessible as transitioning, menopause or managing caring responsibilities. The
environment with the idea that not everybody works in the same way. Passport has helped facilitate conversations between team members and
managers about the adjustments we can make to ensure that everyone is
Walgreens continues to work with community organizations and vocational,
equipped to carry out their role. Once the Passport is in place, it stays with
state and local agencies to support two signature programs helping increase
a team member for as long as is relevant, making it easier to retain their
career opportunities for people with disabilities: Retail Employees with
adjustments if they have a new manager.
Disabilities Initiative (REDI) and the Transitional Work Group (TWG).
Through REDI, Walgreens provides people with disabilities a three- to
six-week in-store training program. As part of the training, participants learn
valuable retail and customer service skills, qualifying hundreds of potential
employees for roles at our stores. In fiscal 2023, Walgreens rolled out this
program to more stores, bringing the number to 682, which has led to
2,400 total participants since the project’s inception.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 62
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Helping young people from all backgrounds Walgreens Diversity Donation
During fiscal 2023, Walgreens awarded $8,475,000 in scholarships for pharmacy students at 132
gain professional experience
schools. The awards range from $5,000 to $10,000. The goal of the Walgreens Diversity Donation
GRI 3-3, 413-1 program is to support pharmacy schools that are intentionally working to provide underrepresented
minority students with positive and supportive educational experiences while partnering to increase
the overall enrollment of underrepresented minority students in the professional pharmacy program.
WBA partners with numerous organizations, schools and
universities to help provide meaningful job opportunities for young
people and support pharmacy training for students from diverse
Boots UK and The Prince’s Trust
backgrounds. Young people are the future and are essential
Since 2019, Boots UK has worked in partnership with The Prince's Trust to support young people
to the continued transformation and growth of our company.
in communities across the UK, developing their skills, confidence and self-esteem, regardless of
background. To date, we have supported 500 young people through employability and insight
opportunities. In fiscal 2023, Boots and The Prince's Trust supported 119 young people, including
76 young people who took part in Get Into programs, with 42 progressing into paid work. Boots
Empowering Diverse Young Professionals
has also raised £1,198,000 ($1,456,000) for The Prince’s Trust this year.
Boots and No7 Beauty Company are working with Black Young
Through a long standing partnership with Sudbury Prison, Boots has given employment
Professionals network to highlight opportunities on their Support Office
opportunities to 313 serving prisoner in our warehouse operations to date.
site with the aim of increasing representation of Black talent, where the
data suggests our current representation could be more reflective
of the communities in which we work. Boots UK and Speakers for Schools
Boots focused on tackling employability and generating a talent pipeline through education
programs that intercept young people at pivotal moments in their career journeys. Working with
social mobility charity, Speakers for Schools, Boots had thousands of interactions with young people
across 64 schools focused on guiding them toward future-forward careers. In fiscal 2023, Speakers
for Schools offered a virtual meeting for parents and caregivers who play a significant role in guiding
young people through their career choices and outlook.
Business in the Community: World of Work
In the Republic of Ireland, the Boots World of Work program hosts a series of workshops throughout
the academic year for students who are at risk of leaving school early. These workshops offer an
introduction to what it is like to work for Boots, and included sessions on sustainability and living
a healthier lifestyle. The program is currently active in eight schools across the country, and
165 students completed the program over the 2022-2023 school year.
Skills for Chicagoland’s Future
For the ninth year, Walgreens continued to support Skills for Chicagoland’s Future, a nonprofit
organization helping tackle unemployment and underemployment in Walgreens’ home city of
Chicago. As part of its partnership, Walgreens has committed to a strategic recruiting relationship
to connect the unemployed to opportunities at Walgreens.
As of Aug. 31, 2023, Walgreens has hired more than 200 people in various store positions across
the Chicago area through the partnership. This includes a number of pharmacy tech apprentices
Walgreens helped to train and mentor through Skills’ Beyond the Diploma: Pivot to Success program.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 63
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Environment and social impact Continuously learning
A new core pillar of our DEI strategy is around environmental and social WBA continues to develop new training and development opportunities
MORE INFO impact. At WBA, we are working to more fully understand the intersection for employees on issues related to DEI. As new topics arise, we want to
of people and the environment and where we can fit in to support both. As ensure employees are equipped with the knowledge to act inclusively
Read more about our supplier
we continue to explore where WBA can make the most impact, we anticipate at work and beyond.
diversity efforts in Marketplace
developing a more comprehensive list of goals, programs and initiatives to
on page 90. To provide leaders with the tools to succeed when developing an inclusive
support this effort. To read more about our environment and social impact
culture, in fiscal 2023, Boots and No7 Beauty Company introduced a suite of
work, please see the Healthy Communities section of this report.
new DEI learning modules on Learning Hub. This covers key aspects of DEI
such as equity, empathy, privilege and allyship and specific modules such
as menopause and disability fundamentals.
Inclusive brands and services In fiscal 2023, Boots and No7 Beauty Company extended their reverse
mentoring program, ‘Inclusion in Action Partnership Programme,’ helps to
WBA seeks to create inclusive brands and services that are accessible.
connect leaders within the business with members of our BRGs with the aim
By working with key partners and listening to the needs of employees and
of creating partnerships whereby they can share personal experiences, learn
customers, we continually develop new opportunities to create inclusive
together and partner in bringing about change, thus enabling an improved
brands and provide services that are adaptable and accessible.
culture of diversity, equity and inclusion. Since the program launched, it has
In 2023, we: been able to connect more than 40 senior leaders with a BRG mentor.
After the success of Boots’ award-winning HUG (Hello, Understand, Go the
Released new pronoun badges for team members at No7, Boots Extra Mile) customer service training in 2018, we introduced HUG Inclusion.
and Liz Earle in Boots stores. This allows team members to This program extension has had a particular focus on disability with the
proudly display their pronouns so that they can be addressed e-learning helping store employees explore how they can create a more
in accordance with their gender identity and creates a safe and inclusive shopping environment for all.
inclusive environment for our customers and patients.
Walgreens expanded its disability inclusion and representation programs, with
the launch of a Support Center program to recruit and retain neurodivergent
talent in partnership with industry-leader Neurodiversity in the Workplace.
Working with Purple Tuesday, we conducted an accessibility
audit of 64 products across our health and beauty ranges to In support of this new initiative, Walgreens hosted Lunch and Learn sessions
understand the strengths and challenges for disabled customers. to bring greater awareness and understanding of neurodiversity and to
We’ll use these insights to create guidance and training for our socialize the new hiring initiative with support center people managers and
teams to continually improve our offering. the HR community. Over 150 employees attended the three sessions with
representation from the U.S. Retail Pharmacy and U.S. Healthcare segments.
Improved training for B-Hive teams on inclusive and accessible
content creation to better reach and connect with a wider, more
diverse audience in an authentic and inclusive way.
Boots partnered with RangeMe, the leading online platform that
streamlines new product discovery between brands and retailers,
to enable new, emerging and diverse brands to access Boots’
buying teams.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 64
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Reporting on our progress
WBA published our latest EEO-1 data covering U.S. employees as of Dec.
31, 2022. The EEO-1 report is a mandatory annual submission to the U.S.
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC). Large private-sector
employers are required to submit demographic workforce data, including
data by race/ethnicity, sex and job categories. It is important to note the
EEOC job categories do not match WBA’s workforce organization; therefore,
the diversity percentages in the EEO-1 report do not match the diversity
data we publish in this report.
In the UK, our businesses that are subject to the government’s gender
pay gap regulations publish annual reports. During fiscal 2023, Boots UK
published its Sixth Gender Pay Gap Report, which included actions taken
toward further reducing the pay gap, encouraging and supporting female
employees across the organization and inspiring everyone to reach their
full potential. This report showed a median gender pay gap of 0 percent.
Boots continues to remain well ahead of the median national average
and is continuing to drive initiatives to maintain our progress in this area.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 65
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Fiscal 2023 workforce and diversity data
GRI 2-7, 405-1
The following charts and tables show our progress against DEI targets and our workforce
by the numbers globally and in the U.S.1
Walgreens pharmacists
by gender
Age group (%) Gender (%)
Female
Employee category <30 30-50 >50 M F UD2 Male
39
%
Manager3 13 66 21 38 62 -
Non-manager3 42 36 22 28 72 -
All employees 38 40 22 29 71 -
61
%
Senior Director and above4 54 46 -
Racial and ethnic diversity of employees in our U.S. workforce as of Aug. 31, 2023
1
% 54
People of color (%) White (%) Undisclosed (%) %
Total U.S. workforce3 51 48 1
Walgreens pharmacists
by race and ethnicity
Managers3 41 59 1
Non-managers3 52 46 1
White
Senior Director and above4 24 72 4 People of Color
Undisclosed
45
%
1Percentages may not sum to 100 percent due to rounding.
2Totals showing zeros reflect rounding of amounts lower than 0.5 percent. UD = undisclosed
3Fiscal 2023 data is GRI 405-1 specified disclosure and is within the Deloitte & Touche LLP review scope as detailed on pages 119-120.
4 Data is limited to the U.S. Retail pharmacy segment and U.S. Healthcare segment only. This data includes all employees at this job level who
are on payroll as of Aug. 31, 2023. This row of data does not fall within Deloitte & Touche LLP’s review scope.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 66
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Business resource groups Here is some background on each BRG and highlights of their achievements in fiscal 2023:
In fiscal 2023, our business resource groups
(BRGs) saw significant growth. More than 6,200
team members have joined at least one of
our 24 BRGs. We recently introduced Belong
at Boots Ireland and expanded Parent and To build a cross-functional To build leadership To create a culture that To engage our team Engage, educate, and
Caregiving BRG in UK. team that embraces African- capabilities, strengthen celebrates differences, members, customers and support individuals with
American culture with a team member community, embraces diversity and communities on topics disabilities and allies by
Our BRGs are active throughout the year,
focus on education and increase business value and fosters inclusivity at all levels involving Racial, Ethnic and providing informational
raising awareness for the causes that mean
awareness, equity and celebrate diversity across of Boots Ireland, and reflects Cultural Heritage, creating a content, fostering an
the most to them. They are active internally
advancement. the Asian community. the communities we serve. supportive environment for inclusive workforce, and
as well as externally, participating in their
all while promoting inclusivity furthering disability-related
own communities outside of WBA.
across all levels of WBA. initiatives.
To support team members To attract and engage team To engage, retain and To drive purposeful impact Being a voice for our
with opportunities to engage members and partners develop Latino team while engaging, retaining LGBTQ+ team members,
in sustainable practices, who reflect our diverse members at Walgreens and and developing the customers and communities,
while driving change, customers and communities, deliver impact that matters capabilities of career partnering with allies and to
business performance and fostering an inclusive for our business and diverse starters at Walgreens. promote a supportive and
enhancing brand reputation. culture, while driving communities. inclusive environment.
business performance.
To support team members To be the global community To provide resources and
who are Veterans, Reserve for women and allies in community for team members
Forces, Military families and Walgreens Boots Alliance who are caring for others in
friends and promote our that inspires, develops, their personal lives. Working
business as a a supportive advances, and supports Parents & Caregivers
employer and retailer of women in reaching their provides a space for all to
choice across all Military full potential through connect, network and support
communities collaborative partnerships, each other as we navigate to
personal connections, and balance personal challenges
an engaged workforce. with professional life.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 67
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Employee
As a global business with roles in pharmacy, retail, distribution, All WBA segments, businesses and corporate functions are required to keep
fulfillment and corporate operations, WBA can impact prosperity up-to-date written policies defining the rights of each team member to trade
union membership where statutorily or legally required, according to our
Engagement and in communities worldwide by acting as an employer of choice.
internal human resources policy.
We view this responsibility as caring for the whole team member
Development through six fundamental needs: physical health, financial wellness, As of Aug. 31, 2023, 7.3 percent of WBA team members were covered
by collective bargaining agreements.
authentic environment, purposeful work, connectedness and
career growth.
GRI 2-7, 2-8, 2-21, 2-30, 3-3, 201-1, 404-1, 404-2, 404-3
Employee hiring, retention and compensation
GRI 2-7, 2-8, 2-21, 2-30, 3-3, 201-1, 401-1
We understand that investing in and listening to our teammates is the
most effective way to foster a great place to work, which translates directly
to our business success and ability to serve customers.
To ensure we are effectively meeting the needs of our team members and
encouraging retention, WBA deploys significant tools and processes to gather
and respond to feedback. Our primary tool for understanding the state of
our workforce is our annual global team member engagement survey,
“Our Voice. Our Future.”
We also recognize the importance of compensation in attracting and retaining
top talent. To meet our aim of offering competitive pay and benefits, the
compensation department conducts an annual pay analysis against key roles.
Boots UK partnered with the Armed Forces Covenant in fiscal 2023, which
seeks to ensure that those who served in the armed forces and their families
are treated fairly in the workplace. This further enshrines Boots' commitment
to treating veterans fairly and with respect following last year's creation of
Valour, a BRG that advocates for veteran representation across the business.
Since the Boots UK 50 Year Club was founded six years ago, the business
has celebrated 72 team members with 50 years of service or more. During
fiscal 2023, 10 new team members reached their 50-year milestone.
Additionally, four team members have celebrated over 60 years of service.
Through a long-standing partnership with Sudbury Prison, Boots has given
employment opportunities to 313 serving prisoners in our warehouse
operation to date, allowing them to gain the opportunity of employment and
earning and providing our operation with a pipeline of team members.
WBA respects and upholds the right of workers in conformity with local law
to be members of trade unions of their own choosing and to bargain
collectively, in accordance with the appropriate local laws.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 68
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Employee training, learning and development In 2019, the first Irish national retail apprenticeship scheme was launched
with Boots Ireland forming part of the steering committee and securing
GRI 404-1, 404-2, 404-3
a pharmacy module as an elective element of the program. In fiscal 2023,
Learning and development are key to supporting team member development three apprentices graduated from the Boots Ireland scheme, bringing the
and enabling the future of our business. To effectively live our vision to total number to date to seven.
reimagine healthcare and leverage our talent network, WBA focuses efforts
As a measure of WBA’s success and to continue developing team members
on leadership development, store training and clinical preparation. Our
according to our objectives, we prioritize performance appraisals. At the
internal functions work to align training and upskilling to the evolving
start of the year, team members set goals and are evaluated at ongoing
needs of the business.
points throughout the year. Team members are also rated on performance
We extend training opportunities across our organization and in stores, behaviors, which we have identified as driving culture and responsible
support offices and distribution centers. During fiscal 2023, Walgreens leadership. Emphasis is put on not only what our teams do, but also
full-time equivalent team members received an average of 29 hours how they do it.
of training per person. In fiscal 2023, the LEAD program was launched, which is an organization
wide development program in Boots and No7 Beauty Company for leaders
WBA collaborates with internal and external experts to offer learning
who have aspiration to grow their careers into senior leadership roles,
through functional academies including the IT Academy, and in the UK
building diversity of thought, people and commercial leadership capability.
we offer the Myway Marketing Academy. The academies provide best-
Participants are connected to the senior leadership team through program
in-class learning tools to hone priority skills in highly competitive areas.
sponsorship and project work as well as being supported to maximize
Throughout fiscal 2023, the programs evolved to provide specialized
coaching and mentoring opportunities.
learning on key topics including Cloud, Cyber Security, Project Delivery,
AI/Data and Digital Marketing in support of business strategy and goals. In March 2023, WBA team members around the world celebrated
International Women's Day #embraceequity by hosting a selection of events
Walgreens University continued to offer training, leadership development
that explored the theme through key topics such as Workplace Wellness,
and career advancement opportunities to team members at all levels. During
Allyship and Intersectionality. In addition, WBA participated in events that
fiscal 2023, more than 14,500 team members participated in both in-person
support developing women in leadership. Benavides hosted the SpeakHers
and live virtual sessions. Walgreens University also partners with academic
Foundation networking event in Mexico focused on empowering and
institutions to offer tuition discounts. Since launching in 2013, Walgreens
retaining women in leadership. The event had 120 participants.
University has provided team members with more than $11 million in
tuition discounts.
Boots UK also puts emphasis on upskilling pharmacists in compliance
with changing requirements from the General Pharmaceutical Council (GPhC)
and NHS contractual requirements. In fiscal 2023 we trained over 250
phlebotomists to support an NHS research program, Our Future Health. We
also continue to support access to vaccinations for the UK population by
training in excess of 4,000 Boots team members to support our Private and
NHS led services.
Boots UK grew participation in its apprenticeship programs to more than
800 team members across 16 programs, from entry level up to degree
level, across supply chain, support office and stores. In fiscal 2023, the
programs grew to include the new optical assistant level three, data science
and AI programs. New programs are continually developed in order to meet
certain needs of the business and to help with specialized staff retention.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 69
Healthy
Planet
Fiscal 2023 Progress
By fiscal 2030:
WBA: Reduce absolute Boots UK: Reduce food
Scope 1 and Scope 2 waste by 50 percent from
global carbon emissions the 2015 baseline, as part
by 30 percent, as of WRAP Food Waste
compared with 2019 Reduction Roadmap.
baseline. On Track. On Track.
Reduced emissions by
a further 3.8 percentage
points in fiscal 2023
taking cumulative
reduction to 25 percent
By fiscal 2040:
British Retail Consortium Climate Roadmap, Boots UK: Support the
UK's wider net zero transition by collaborating with other UK retailers on a
roadmap for the industry to achieve complete net zero emissions by 2040,
including net zero Scope 2 emissions by 2030 and Scope 1 emissions by
2035. On Track.
OOvveerrvviieeww GGoovveerrnnaannccee HHeeaalltthhyy CCoommmmuunniittiieess HHeeaalltthhyy aanndd IInncclluussiivvee WWoorrkkppllaaccee Healthy Planet SSuussttaaiinnaabbllee MMaarrkkeettppllaaccee AAppppeennddiicceess
A Letter From...
Una Kent
Vice President of ESG and DEI, International Walgreens Boots Alliance
The climate agenda could not be more at the top of our minds since we published our last report. The summer of 2023 was Earth's
hottest since global records began in 1880, according to scientists at NASA's Goddard Institute of Space Studies (GISS) in New York.
Our amazing team members have had to respond to unprecedented events in our major markets, from catastrophic fire damage
in Hawaii, to flooding in Vermont as well as the effects of extreme heat across Southern Europe and air pollution in Thailand.
We recognize that the Climate crisis is a Health crisis. anniversary year, I am heartened by our year-on-year progress
The heat is on. against the initiatives and goals that we know move the needle
in this area. Four years ago, we were one of the first retailers to
For these reasons, it is all our responsibility at Walgreens Boots
remove plastic bags in the UK, and today we remain committed to
Alliance to remain committed and focused to the ambitious but very
doing so across our global operations. Since 2019, we decreased
necessary targets that we have set ourselves to achieve in the areas
waste to landfill or incineration by 18 percent or 55,000 metric tonnes.
of carbon emissions reduction, plastic reduction and food waste
reduction. Together, we continue to make excellent progress towards With our immense heritage and the scale of our business and
a reduction of our total Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 30 percent by deep partnerships with suppliers and associations, our impact
2030 from a 2019 baseline. This year, we further reduced emissions makes a difference. Based on our progress to date, the transparent
by 3.8 percent reaching a 25 percent reduction since 2019. governance and reporting that we have put in place, and a razor-
sharp focus on our goals, we can remain confident that we will
Our actions over the past year as a leading company range from policy
reach our targets. Together we are committed to ensuring our
to the practical. We continue to align our reporting to the likes of the
actions deliver both healthy people and a healthy planet.
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), and we continue to engage with
organizations such as the Retail Industry Leaders Association (RILA) in
the U.S. and the British Retail Consortium (BRC) in the UK to help guide
our environmental work. With clear targets set and monitored rigorously
on a quarterly basis, we can hold our heads high. As we mark this
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 71
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Energy and
Our carbon emissions target In fiscal 2023, Walgreens initiated a trial bulk fuel program in two California
distribution centers that replaced traditional diesel with renewable diesel. This
GRI 3-3
has the potential to decrease transportation emissions in these locations by
Emissions
At WBA, we believe there is an inextricable link between 75 percent. Given the positive impact of this program, WBA intends to roll it
out to other locations across the U.S. as additional supply becomes available.
the health of our planet and the health of our communities,
GRI 3-3, 302-3, 302-4, 305-1,
whether impacted by extreme temperatures, natural disasters,
305-2, 305-3, 305-4, 305-5 In the UK, Boots has continued to limit the reliance on natural gas in its
airborne diseases or poor air quality. We also believe climate
stores. Our position is to not use gas in new stores, and we have active gas
change is caused by human activities and requires swift action to electric programs to support the transition away from gas. As part of that
by corporations to do our part in reducing our footprint. program, Boots was able to remove natural gas from seven stores via HVAC
projects and significantly limited the reliance on gas in one additional store.
In fiscal 2021, Boots UK collaborated with other UK retailers on a roadmap
WBA has continued to execute against our global emissions reduction
for the industry to achieve net zero emissions by 2040, including net zero
targets, which include an ambition to reduce our total emissions by 30
Scope 2 emissions by 2030, Scope 1 by 2035 and Scope 3 by 2040. Boots
percent by the end of fiscal 2030. At the end of fiscal 2023, WBA was able
Ireland signed up to the Business in the Community Ireland Low Carbon
to reduce our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions by 25 percent compared to
Pledge to set science-based carbon emissions reduction targets by 2024.
the 2019 baseline. Details on our progress against our emissions reduction
goals can be found on page 74.
This year, Boots and the No7 Beauty Company established a network of
To position WBA to meet our reduction targets, we continually seek Net Zero Leads across the business who are using baseline footprint data
opportunities to advance energy efficiency in our largest business, for Scopes 1, 2 and 3, gathered in fiscal 2022, to develop an emissions
Walgreens. With more than 8,700 stores and clinics in the U.S., implementing reduction plan. The Leads will meet monthly and are tasked with identifying
new strategies that reduce the energy consumption involved in maintenance, opportunities to reduce emissions in their business area, gathering data
sourcing and other energy intensive activities is crucial to ensure we meet to support annual footprinting and engaging and inspiring their teams
our 2030 goals. to reduce emissions.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 72
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Climate reporting Progress on water
As we continue to participate in the broader global effort to manage GRI 3-1, 3-3
environmental impact across our company, we recognize the nature of climate
reporting is evolving. Investors, regulators and consumers are requesting Due to climate change, water availability is becoming less predictable,
comprehensive disclosures and transparency around how companies with implications for human health and food security. WBA understands the
manage their impact. importance of this topic. As outlined on page 88, our continued rollout of
WBA’s owned brand global Supplier Sustainability Program will give us an
At WBA, we see this as progress and a necessary step to drive accountability
understanding of environmental and social issues relevant to our product
and action against the climate crisis.
categories, including water.
In fiscal 2022, WBA engaged with the Retail Industry Leaders Association
public comment to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)
to inform potential mandatory climate reporting. While the SEC’s disclosure
requirement decision is yet to be released, we remain in support of Our progress
businesses reporting on their impacts to the planet.
GRI 305-1, 305-2, 305-3
We believe the company is well-prepared for any such rules as we currently
report in adherence to several disclosure frameworks that require us to make
Most of our Scope 1 emissions (directly from sources controlled by the
climate impacts and risks publicly available. We discuss climate change risks
Company) and Scope 2 emissions (resulting from purchased electricity,
and risks related to the evolving global ESG regulatory requirements and
heat and steam consumed by the Company) are related to energy use for
expectations in our fiscal 2023 annual report, highlighting the ways in which
light and heat. We also report business travel and the portion of downstream
climate change can materially impact our business. In addition, this ESG
transportation and distribution in our management of Scope 3 emissions
report is written in alignment with the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial
(indirect emissions that are a consequence of Company activities but occur
Disclosures. We are actively analyzing scenarios to identify and assess
from sources not owned or controlled by the Company). The Company
climate-related risks and opportunities, as well as evolving our governance,
reports GHG emissions for entities for which it has financial control, as
strategy, risk management, metrics and targets accordingly.
defined by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol A Corporate Accounting and
WBA also continues to submit climate change disclosures to CDP on an Reporting Standard, Revised Edition, published by the World Resources
annual basis. CDP submissions in the climate category are rated on a scale Institute/World Business Council for Sustainable Development (the
of A to D- for completeness; assessment of environmental issues and risks; “GHG Protocol”).
and the extent to which a company has implemented actions, policies and
The Company has set fiscal 2019 as the GHG baseline year for Scope 1,
strategies to address these.
Scope 2 and Scope 3 emissions, and intends to report emissions against
this baseline year going forward. In fiscal 2023, WBA’s total carbon footprint
based on our stated scope on page 74 was 1.5 million metric tonnes of CO e
2
(carbon dioxide equivalent), down 24.5 percent from our baseline year of
fiscal 2019, mainly due to energy efficiency projects across the Company. Of
the fiscal 2023 emissions, 86.4 percent were from energy emissions, including
89.2 percent electricity and 9.6 percent natural gas within energy emissions.
Separately, 12.0 percent of emissions were from product delivery and the
remaining 1.7 percent of emissions were from business travel.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 73
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Fiscal 2023 emissions data CO e emissions from energy, by type1 (000 metric tonnes)
2
GRI 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 305-4
% change from
DISCOVER Fiscal 2023 Fiscal 2022 Fiscal 2019
fiscal 2019
The tables and charts in this Total CO e emissions by source1
Electricity 1,164 1,231 1,631 (29%)
section show details of emissions 2
data. Energy and emissions data (000 metric tonnes) Gas 125 130 133 (6%)
is available in the ESG section
% change from Other 16 16 17 (6%)
of our website. Fiscal 2023 Fiscal 2022 Fiscal 2019
fiscal 2019
Total 1,305 1,376 1,781 (27%)
Energy 1,305 1,376 1,781 (27)%
Product Delivery 181 178 180 NM
Business Travel 26 23 42 (39)%
Total WBA 1,511 1,577 2,002 (25)%
CO e emissions from business travel
2
(per thousand employees, by segment1)
% change from
Fiscal 2023 Fiscal 2022 Fiscal 2019
fiscal 2019
U.S. Retail
64 68 108 (41%)
Pharmacy
CO e emissions by source in fiscal 20231
2
12
% 2 International 117 89 204 (43%)
%
U.S. Healthcare 89 - - NM
WBA 77 71 157 (51%)
Energy
Product Delivery
Business Travel
86
%
1Fiscal 2023 data is a WBA specified disclosure and is within the Deloitte & Touche LLP review scope as detailed on pages 119-120 and page 8 of our fiscal 2023 GHG Statement.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 74
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Scope 1, 2 and 3 GHG emissions
Global CO e emissions ('000 metric tonnes)
2
DISCOVER
The tables and charts in this % change
section show details of emissions fiscal 2023
Fiscal 20231 Fiscal 2022 Fiscal 2019
compared to
data. Energy and emissions data
fiscal 2019
is available in the ESG section
of our website.
Scope 1 296 298 313 (5)%
Scope 12 (Sales
27 25 32 (16)%
to third parties)
Gross Scope 12 323 323 345 (6)%
Scope 2
1,151 1,218 1,617 (29)%
location-based
Gross Scope 1 and
1,474 1,542 1,962 (25)%
2 location-based2
Scope 33 64 61 73 (13)%
Gross Scope
1, 2 and 3 1,538 1,602 2,034 (24)%
location-based2
Scope 2
1,108 1,177 1,556 (29)%
market-based
Gross Scope 1 and
1,431 1,500 1,901 (25)%
2 market-based
GRI 305-4: GHG Emissions Intensity
('000 metric tonnes of COe per USD million sales)
2
Gross Scope 1 and
0.0106 0.0116 0.0163 (35)%
2 location-based1
1 Fiscal 2023 data is a WBA specified disclosure and is within the Deloitte & Touche LLP review scope
as detailed on pages 119-120.
2 Includes Scope 1 emissions resulting from heat and electricity produced by our on-site Combined
Heat and Power plant in Beeston, Nottingham, UK and sold to third parties or the grid.
3The Company is reporting on two of the fifteen Scope 3 categories. See Basis of Presentation.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 75
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Managing energy use and investments in distribution networks that improve resilience.
Boots also sells surplus electricity back to the National Grid.
GRI 3-3, 302-4
In fiscal 2023, Boots UK began working in partnership with Cadent
Gas through the East Coast Hydrogen scheme to develop the generation
During fiscal 2023, WBA focused on better predicting and adjusting to
and distribution of hydrogen as a replacement for natural gas. The use of
energy needs across its businesses while continuing to monitor efficiency
hydrogen, initially blended with natural gas and eventually as a replacement
performance for each business on weekly, monthly and annual cadences.
will reduce the total volume of gas consumed through the combustion
As energy accounts for most of our emissions, our strategy is guided by within the Energy Centre which in turn reduces Boots’ carbon emissions.
efficiency and supplemented with renewable sources. We reduce our
In Germany, Alliance Healthcare Deutschland has begun streamlining
overall carbon footprint through management of equipment and systems
warehouse operations which will reduce overall energy use. We have
across retail locations, distribution centers and fleets. WBA’s businesses
consolidated warehouse locations, prioritizing space in premium locations
invest in energy-efficient lighting, heating, ventilation and air conditioning
and streamlining our warehouse footprint. Also at the warehouses, the
(HVAC) units and refrigerators; engage and educate team members around
company implemented a series of energy reduction initiatives including
energy consumption; invest in photovoltaic systems; use alternative energy
the migration of smaller warehouses into bigger units which contributed
management programs; and participate in demand-response curtailment
to a reduction in energy use year-over-year of 9.7 percent.
programs during peak periods.
To stay on the front end of sustainable solutions, Walgreens focused
on scaling up LED lighting replacements and designed a roadmap for
implementation of refrigerants as the Department of Energy phases out
Responding to climate events
certain refrigerants in favor of potentially lower global warming options.
GRI 3-3, 305-5
Following the introduction of store-level energy budgets in fiscal 2022,
Boots UK continued to use the same process and is working to give wider
With a large retail footprint, we understand our role and responsibility
visibility to the program. In addition, Boots UK continued the implementation
in managing energy use within our communities, particularly amid
of metering systems to report on store-level consumption more accurately.
increased extreme weather and climate events. Due to Walgreens
In fiscal 2023, Boots UK completed 80 electric and 27 gas meter exchanges.
continued rollout of its advanced Energy Management System (EMS),
In addition to metering changes, the business completed energy-related
the business was able to continue its demand response program during
retrofits and improvement projects in 671 stores.
fiscal 2023, enrolling 1,025 locations across the country. In addition,
Following the successful introduction of the Design Conformity ESC Carbon
the EMS installations offer a more holistic view of store health and allow
Certification in fiscal 2022, the Boots property team has committed to
for real-time adjustments to lighting, temperature, and refrigeration.
expanding this requirement into other store areas, including Fragrance.
In fiscal 2023, there were 1,778 EMS installed, bringing the total to
6,000 displays are being updated with LED lighting saving an average energy
5,800 locations to date.
consumption reduction of 71 percent, or 111Kg CO e per year. With a seven-
2
year life, this project is expected to save 4,662 tonnes of CO e.
2
In 2023, Boots Ireland undertook a comprehensive LED upgrade work in
its stores and support office. This rolling program of works will deliver lower
energy consumption, increased energy control and brighter and more
attractive shops for our team members and customers.
The Boots UK Energy Centre, one of the largest in-house combined heat
and power (CHP) plants in the UK, allows for greater energy security and
carbon emissions reductions than energy purchased from the National
Grid. Ownership of this energy management system leads to continuous
improvement through installation of new equipment, automated metering
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 76
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Renewable energy Fleet efficiency and electric vehicle charging points
Where strategically feasible, WBA looks to power its operations through GRI 3-2, 3-3, 302-2, 302-4
certified renewable energy from wind, solar or hydro. During fiscal 2023,
7.0 percent of electricity consumed across WBA was from renewable sources. WBA fiscal 2023 emissions from product delivery increased by 0.3 percent
In the Republic of Ireland, 100 percent of our Boots stores are powered by compared with our baseline year of fiscal 2019.
certified renewable energy. In the UK, 97.8 percent of our stores are certified
To improve fleet efficiency, Boots UK implemented an all-day routing program
renewable.
within the pharmacy supply chain, resulting in a 3.8 million reduction in miles
At Walgreens we are evaluating our renewable energy strategy to identify compared to fiscal 2022. Boots UK replaced 99 double deck wedge trailers
the process that allows the business to have the biggest impact across in fiscal 2023, with the new trailers allowing for increased capacity, meaning
our operational footprint, including locations under lease agreements. fewer vehicles, decreased maintenance and less tire rubber. The business
continues to explore alternative fuels and currently utilizes three electric
vans for pharmacy distribution. To contribute to additional vehicle efficiency,
Boots is planning to submit orders for additional hybrid vans.
The Walgreen Oshkosh1 truck fleet has participated in the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency’s (EPA) SmartWay Program since 2005, which helps
measure fuel efficiency in the fleet and understand the supply chain’s total
impact on the environment. In fiscal 2023, the EPA again named Walgreen
Oshkosh1 a SmartWay High Performer based on continuous efforts to optimize
routes, reduce empty miles, and achieve miles per gallon improvements and
introduce equipment replacement strategies for fuel-efficient vehicles.
In fiscal 2023, Walgreens continued optimizing delivery routes and
testing new technologies to provide efficiencies. In a replacement for the
Aerodynamic EkoStinger program, Walgreens began implementing a trailer
skirting project which has the potential to increase fuel efficiency beyond the
previous program’s potential. Walgreen’s 2022 pilot program installing truck
wings has evolved into a full-scale program, with 165 wings already installed
and a goal of 300 planned by the end of the calendar year.
Walgreens also plans to replace 321 trucks this year, which will lead to
an overall improvement of fuel economy. The anticipated fuel economy
improvement for fiscal 2024 after the trucks have been replaced is a nearly
3 percent increase in fuel efficiency over previous years.
Also underway are plans to incorporate electric vans for WBA's operations
in Germany. This would enable us to drive down energy use and costs.
1Walgreen Oshkosh is a subsidiary of Walgreens.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 77
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Waste
Waste management Walgreens continues to sponsor and participate in the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce Foundation’s Beyond 34: Scaling Circularity for a Sustainable
GRI 3-3, 306-1, 306-2
Economy, which aims to improve low U.S. municipal recycling rates by
and Plastics
creating scalable models for high-impact waste solutions. Walgreens was
Waste management is an important issue for WBA and our involved in the program’s expansion in Atlanta, and plans to continue to be
stakeholders, who expect us to do what is reasonably within highly involved in future developments of this program.
GRI 3-3, 301-3, 306-1, 306-2, 306-3,
306-4, 306-5, 413-1, 417-1 our control to avoid waste associated with our operations and Boots is part of the working group for the Government of Scotland’s deposit
minimize any adverse impacts of waste through responsible return scheme for drink bottles. Together with Circularity Scotland and Zero
management and contributing to a more circular economy. WBA Waste Scotland, retailers are working to develop return points at stores to
take back all types of drinking bottles to increase recycling.
continues to prioritize waste management and works to make
our business more sustainable by rethinking designs, reducing Employee awareness and training is key to further progress on our
consumption, recycling, composting, reusing materials and environmental targets and to ensure employees understand the impacts
of their work on the environment. More than 520 Boots UK team members
measuring our global waste generation and disposal.
have completed the Boots Environmental Experts (BEE) online training since
it was introduced in fiscal 2020. At Walgreens, our ESG Champions are
This section of our report covers waste management, waste reduction
provided with information on active waste-related programs such as ZWTL
and recycling efforts; Zero Waste to Landfill (ZWTL) programs in certain areas
and Beyond the Bag in addition to their ESG training module courses, which
of operation; and efforts to reduce the negative impact of plastics and waste
include health, safety and environmental compliance, energy and emissions
in our retail stores and distribution operations. Our work on plastic packaging
reduction, product sustainability and waste management. ESG Champions
in our owned brands is covered in more detail in Sustainable Marketplace.
from the international teams meet regularly to discuss waste and share best
practices on this important issue.
Waste is a local issue and is managed differently across geographies,
with an emphasis on partnership and overall waste reduction. In the UK,
the government-backed waste hierarchy provides a framework that promotes
waste avoidance, recycling and recovery methods over disposal in landfills.
Boots UK also engages environmental management systems and standards
to drive a culture of reducing general waste by effectively managing all
waste streams. In the U.S., the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)
Non-Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Hierarchy is used to
ensure proper approaches are taken for different kinds of waste. Across
the world, WBA’s businesses engage with various vendor partners
to help ensure best practices are used when handling waste.
Tackling a challenge such as waste requires industry collaboration with
retail groups and municipalities, especially due to continued uncertainties
in the global recycling market. Through organizations such as the RILA in the
U.S., Walgreens is supporting efforts to increase recycling and reuse in the
retail industry. Walgreens is a member of the RILA Sustainability and Zero
Waste Committees that promote collaboration on key issues such as energy
use, greenhouse gas emissions reduction, regulation review and response,
waste generation reduction, and the circular economy. Walgreens has been
a member of the Consortium to Reinvent the Retail Bag’s Beyond the Bag
Initiative, managed by Closed Loop Partners.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 78
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Fiscal 2023 waste data The fiscal 2023 recycling and reuse rates at our segments were as follows:
GRI 306-11, 306-32, 306-4, 306-5 • U.S. Retail Pharmacy 72 percent.
DISCOVER • International 88 percent.
Waste data is available in the Across all its businesses, WBA sent 253,082 metric tonnes • U.S. Healthcare 0 percent.
ESG section of our website.
of waste to landfill or incineration in fiscal 2023, a decrease At Walgreens, VillageMD and Boots UK, waste data is received
of 18 percent from the baseline year of fiscal 2019. The increase from third-party suppliers on a regular basis. The data is evaluated for
in waste to landfill between fiscal 2023 and 2022 is due to the completeness. Portions of the data are estimated based on waste container
type and frequency of waste retrieval, particularly from Walgreens and
first time inclusion of U.S. Healthcare data. WBA recycled or
VillageMD. We are continuously reviewing opportunities to enhance
reused 661,600 metric tonnes of materials that were diverted
our reporting processes.
from disposal, an increase of 79 percent from the baseline year of
During fiscal 2023, less than 0.1 percent of the total waste generated by
fiscal 2019. This increase is due to the addition of reuse data from
WBA was considered hazardous, and of that, 46.1 percent was recycled,
Walgreens and Boots UK, and any relevant enterprise acquisition
28.9 percent was incinerated, 8.1 percent was recovered via incineration
data. WBA has been focused on reducing waste to landfill and
and 17.0 percent went to appropriate landfills in accordance with federal,
incineration as well as improving material diversion through state, and local regulations.
increased reuse and recycling opportunities. We are proud of our
current diversion activities, and are exploring new partnerships
that would enable us to have more opportunities to reuse or
recycle materials.
Waste by method of disposal
(000 metric tonnes)
% change from
Fiscal 2023 Fiscal 2022 Fiscal 2019
Fiscal 2019
Landfill 252 240 307 (18%)
Incinerated 1 1 - 114%
253 241 307 (18%)
Materials diverted from disposal
% change from
Fiscal 2023 Fiscal 2022 Fiscal 2019
Fiscal 2019
1 Fiscal 2023 data disclosed is GRI 306-1 and WBA specified disclosure are within Deloitte & Touche
Recycled3 347 354 369 (6%)
LLP review scope as detailed on pages 119-120.
2 Fiscal 2023 data disclosed is GRI 306-3 and WBA specified disclosure are within Deloitte & Touche
Reuse3,4 315 259 - NM
LLP review scope as detailed on pages 119-120.
3Fiscal 2022 amounts have been reclassified to the Reuse category.
662 613 369 79%
4 Data is presented for Walgreens and Boots UK only. Reuse includes: pallets, totes and product
donation and liquidation.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 79
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Diverting and reducing waste For 7 years, Boots UK has taken part in the Food Waste Reduction Roadmap
as part of the Courtauld Commitment 2030, led by sustainability and waste
GRI 3-2, 3-3, 306-1, 306-2, 306-4
nonprofit group Waste and Resources Action Programme. The goal of the
roadmaps is to reduce food waste by 50 percent by 2030, in line with SDG
WBA businesses continue to divert and reduce waste through target 12.3; Boots is on track to meet this goal.
several ongoing programs, as well as new initiatives across
offices, stores and distribution centers.
Existing Customer Case Study
For the fourth year in a row, less than 0.5 percent of Boots UK's operational Repurposing waste
waste went to landfill. The reduction in the amount of operational waste is
GRI 306-4
limited in scope to Boots UK-owned operations and does not include some
third-party-owned office locations. For the third consecutive year, Boots
Ireland achieved zero waste to landfill. The Walgreens support center and As a part of WBA’s waste management initiatives, there have
WBA global headquarters in Deerfield, Illinois, continued the zero waste to been opportunities to repurpose waste into usable products
landfill program. The distribution centers and related facilities in the U.S.
and tools for customers and the business.
and Puerto Rico also improved waste diversion rates. In fiscal 2023, over
98 percent of waste from distribution centers was diverted from landfill.
Along WBA’s operational supply chain, we have begun utilizing waste to
At Walgreens, the property team has been able to recycle materials that create reusable tote bags that would have traditionally been waste products.
are byproducts of upgrading stores and Walgreens properties. In fiscal 2023, Existing Customer Case Study
Boots UK has begun a program reusing light fixtures and shelves in retail
a total of 36,051 metric tonnes were recycled from projects led by the property
stores rather than purchasing new replacements. This does not impact the
team. This includes 124 tonnes of HVAC components, 828 tonnes of LED
fixtures, 35,082 tonnes from parking lots and 18 tonnes of roofing materials. effectiveness of the shelves or fixtures, as the reused fixtures and shelves Existing Customer Case Study
are refurbished.
The Walgreens team continued looking into several different opportunities
Additional Walgreens achievements and initiatives in fiscal 2023 to prevent operational waste and have begun work on several pilot programs.
to divert items from landfills or to reduce waste include the following: In fiscal 2023, we began working with an existing waste partner, Effizient,
to repurpose recycled caps and bottles from Walgreens stores. Effizient was
Continued to expand our donation and liquidation program, which
able to create several operational prototypes of pallets and store carts that
diverts unsold or discontinued products such as food, toiletries
can be used by Walgreens facilities. We also work with Trex to divert waste
and household items from landfills. In fiscal 2023, Walgreens
film from distribution centers that is used to create upcycled lumber. In fiscal
donated and liquidated over 7,265 metrics tonnes of product.
2023, 633 tonnes of waste film was committed to this program.
Following the expansion of the program in fiscal 2022, Walgreens
continued to recycle stock bottle and caps at all micro-fulfillment
centers. Stock bottles are the plastic containers medications
arrive in before they are dispensed for patients. As the first full-
year of recycling these products, Walgreens was able to divert
552 metrics tonnes worth of stock bottles and caps.
Eliminated 937,000 pounds of waste through reusable product
display structures in retail pharmacies.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 80
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Marketplace recycling programs and initiatives Boots ‘Be More’ initiative
GRI 3-3, 301-3, 306-1, 306-2, 413-1, 417-1 Boots UK has a sustainability initiative on boots.com called Be More, which
aims to help customers select products with one or more of the following
attributes: plastic free, recycled, reusable, vegan and cruelty free. The
In 2020, Boots UK and No7 Beauty Company launched an
shopping tool can be found at www.boots.com/sustainable-living as a
innovative in-store program, Recycle at Boots, to make it easier for
permanent feature of the Boots online store. Currently, it features over 630
consumers to give a second life to hard-to-recycle health, beauty, products, with more to be added on an ongoing basis. Customers can filter
wellness and dental product packaging. The innovative Recycle their product searches by each Be More edit category.
at Boots scheme is the first of its kind in the UK, accepting all
This edit requires products meeting certain criteria to be listed in the section
products, including those not purchased at Boots, and utilizing of the website, providing customers with choice and transparency to help
Scan2Recycle technology to encourage more sustainable habits. them make informed decisions on products that meet their needs and
In February of 2023 the program was launched in Ireland, and it is preferences. A product must meet WBA's minimum requirements for product
sustainability, plus meet the specific criteria of the edit categories to be listed.
the first and only comprehensive recycling program of its kind in
Boots UK plans to continue to evolve and expand these edits to showcase
the country. The program is currently available in 701 Boots stores
products and brands that are working to be more sustainable.
across the UK and more than 50 stores in Ireland.
Recycle at Boots allows customers to bring even the most hard-to-recycle
products into Boots stores to be recycled by Boots’ recycling partner, Metrisk.
Since the start of the program, more than 100,000 registered users have
deposited over 2.3 million beauty, health, wellness and dental products for
recycling, diverting 114 metric tonnes of plastic waste from landfills. Boots has
also shared learnings from the scheme with other companies and industry
groups, and it hopes to see the same levels of accessibility and transparency
rolled out across the industry.
In fiscal 2022, Boots launched the PenCycle scheme, a recycling initiative for
pre-filled injection pens available in all pharmacies. Insulin pens are made
of 73 percent plastic and generally end up in a landfill or incinerated. Users
of Novo Nordisk’s pre-filled FlexPen and FlexTouch devices are now able to
recycle their empty pens at any Boots pharmacy. In fiscal 2023, 3,024 pens
were returned, equivalent to 48.3kg of material that would otherwise have
gone to landfill.
Since 2019, Boots Opticians have collected and recycled nearly 9 million
contact lenses, blister packs, and foil covers with the ACUVUE® Contact Lens
Recycling Programme, amounting to 53,925 kg of plastic.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 81
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Progress on Plastics
Efforts are underway to continue
to build a more circular economy GRI 3-3, 306-1, 306-2
by rethinking how plastic is used in
our operations. More information on
plastics in our owned brands can be
Walgreens has been a member of the Consortium to Reinvent the Retail Bag since 2019, a collaboration with major retailers and nonprofit
found on page 85 in the Sustainable
organizations to identify, test, and implement design solutions and models that sustainably serve the purpose of the current retail bag. Also
Marketplace section of this report.
in 2019, Boots UK announced the elimination of plastic bags for its customers, switching to unbleached paper bags. More recently in fiscal
2023, Boots Thailand phased out plastic bags. Paper bags are now available for customers in Thailand.
Boots continued multiple plastic reduction programs through fiscal 2023, including:
Recycle at Boots is available in 700 stores across the UK and Since the end of calendar 2022, Boots has offered
50 stores in the Republic of Ireland. The scheme allows customers completely plastic-free deliveries for its online orders.
to recycle health and beauty products, which are typically difficult
to recycle.
At retail checkout, customers continue to be offered the option Boots continued its partnership with POPAI, an industry
of unbleached bags made from 100 percent recycled brown body that supports manufacturers of point of sale and
paper printed with water-based ink. By switching to paper, marketing materials, and use of Sustain(R), a web-based
Boots estimates it has removed around 900 metric tonnes sustainability tool measuring the environmental impact of
of plastic from store operations each year. in-store display units produced for Boots UK stores. Sustain(R)
issues a rating for displays, which Boots UK uses to understand
the environmental impact and product marketing and work
Boots pharmacies use recycled paper bags for most medication
with manufacturers to reduce impacts.
pickup at stores and plastic bags made of compostable material
for medications dispensed from a central facility.
Wet Wipes Case Study
Given the scope of WBA’s global business, we have the privilege of choice when it comes to partnering with companies
and suppliers for stocking our retail stores. This choice allows us to influence the sustainability of certain products
purchased through those companies and suppliers.
In fiscal 2023, Boots issued a statement to their suppliers indicating that wet wipes made with plastics will no longer
be stocked on Boots UK shelves or sold online. This is in response to the pledge made in 2022, which commits Boots
to stop selling any wipes with plastic fibers. With more than 800 million wipes sold at Boots, this transition has ensured
the removal of a very significant source of micro plastic pollution of land, rivers and seas. Along with this commitment,
Boots has called on other retail stores to follow the same path in eliminating single use plastic wipes from their shelves
and has been actively engaged with the UK government to change legislation to ban the sale of plastic wipes in the UK.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 82
Sustainable
Marketplace
Fiscal 2023 Progress
Achieved in fiscal 2023:
Boots and No7 Walgreens: Source 100 percent
Beauty Company: of palm oil from Roundtable on
Achieve 80 Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) certified
percent certified sources, physically certified and
RSPO (Roundtable credits Achieved. Each following
on Sustainable year, Walgreens aims to increase
Palm Oil) palm oil the physical certified portion by
through physical 5 percent. On Track.
certification.
Exceeded 80
percent physically
certified RSPO Walgreens: Increase spend with Tier 1
palm oil in owned diverse suppliers to $700 million, from
brand products. $625 million in fiscal 2022. Exceeded.
By fiscal 2025:
Boots and No7 Beauty Company: Achieve the UK Plastics Pact 2025
targets: 30 percent reduction in plastic packaging compared with fiscal
2018 baseline; 100 percent of plastic packaging reusable or recyclable
by consumers; and achieve 30 percent average recycled content across
plastic packaging. On Track. Our owned brands continued progress toward
achieving the UK Plastics Pact targets
By fiscal 2030:
Walgreens: Achieve 30 percent reduction in plastic packaging compared
with fiscal 2020 baseline; 100 percent of plastic packaging reusable or
recyclable by consumers; and achieve 30 percent average recycled content
across plastic packaging. On Track.
OOvveerrvviieeww GGoovveerrnnaannccee HHeeaalltthhyy CCoommmmuunniittiieess HHeeaalltthhyy aanndd IInncclluussiivvee WWoorrkkppllaaccee HHeeaalltthhyy PPllaanneett Sustainable Marketplace AAppppeennddiicceess
A Letter From...
Rajnish Kapur
Senior Vice President and Chief Sourcing and Supply Chain Officer
Our brands are some of the most recognized and trusted in the world and it is our responsibility and privilege to ensure
the trust and special place they have earned in the hearts of our customers over the years never wavers.
I am immensely proud of the work our global team does every day launched its most inclusive skincare brand, No7 Future Renew.
to ensure our owned brand products are ethically, responsibly The Future Renew range has undergone the most extensive and
and sustainably sourced. diverse testing program in No7’s history spanning 37 studies on
over 4,200 people, including two clinical trials and 23 user trials.
We have bold ambitions, which we cannot achieve in isolation.
I am grateful to our global supplier partners who share our commitment Our team are an integral part of our journey and are as passionate
to a sustainable marketplace and protecting our planet. We have and demanding as our customers when it comes to protecting
already come so far on our journey, and I look forward to seeing what our planet. Hosting our second sustainability survey during fiscal
more we can do, together. 2023 helped us to understand where to focus our efforts on
continued learning and development to empower our team to
Our annual supplier sustainability program, brought to life using
make sustainability a key component of our sourcing decisions
The Sustainability Insight System (THESIS), shows year over year
and proactively work with suppliers on enhancements and
improvements in areas including suppliers using less plastic, setting
improvements in our ways of working.
greenhouse gas emission goals and chemical footprint measurement.
WBA continues to be a Champion of The Sustainable Procurement
WBA’s Product Sustainability Hub continues to be a critical enabler
Pledge (SPP) sharing our experiences and learning from others in
of the level of transparency we aspire to throughout our owned brand
our industry to collectively bring about change for good.
supply chain. Information, data and certifications relating to palm oil,
plastics, packaging and raw materials are just a few examples of the We have made strong progress in fiscal 2023 and I look forward
wealth of information suppliers share with us via our global hub. to leading our amazing teams to achieve similarly meaningful
progress in the years ahead.
We have made great progress this year including ensuring all cotton
wool in Boots owned-brand products is Global Organic Textiles
Standard (GOTS) certified and I am delighted that we succeeded in
smashing our target of spending $700 million with diverse suppliers in
the financial year by $26 million. Meanwhile, our No7 Beauty Company
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 84
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Our Owned
At a glance
Brands
GRI 2-23, 3-3
NO7 BEAUTY COMPANY WALGREENS OWNED BRANDS
No7 Beauty Company is a group of highly Walgreens, Nice! and Complete Home
respected skin care and beauty brands, some of are synonymous with quality and aim
WBA and its owned brand product
which date back to 1935. No7 Beauty Company to live up to our century-old code:
portfolio covers a diverse range of
continues to develop products through world- we believe that honest goods sold to
categories. We continually develop
class innovation, sustainable sourcing practices honest people by honest methods. Our
and update our portfolio ingredients and industry-leading consumer behavior insights. brands and products include a variety
and packaging to meet our own Guided by a bold roadmap, it pledges to achieve of goods in numerous categories.
evolving standards as well as its two overarching sustainability goals by 2030:
changing demands. As we look for
ways to innovate and improve, we are
focused on sourcing and packaging
these consumer goods safely,
NEW
responsibly, ethically and sustainably.
X2 1/2
the value we create for the environmental impact
society, compared to 2022 of new No7 Beauty
Company products, as
compared to 2022
BOOTS OWNED BRANDS
From healthcare and beauty
essentials to quality sunscreen,
Boots owned brands, including
Boots Soltan, Boots Brand
Healthcare and 17. provide
affordable, accessible products
customers know, love and trust.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 85
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Sourcing standards and policies Code of Conduct and Ethics
Our Code of Conduct and Ethics provides foundational standards that uphold WBA's
GRI 2-23
commitment to integrity across our businesses, including supply chain management.
Customers, team members and potential new hires are increasingly
demanding products that are ethically sourced and made with sustainable
materials. At WBA we are rising to this challenge and continuing to work
with suppliers who share common principles of fair and honest business;
demonstrate a commitment to maintaining safe working conditions; fully
comply with all legal requirements; and comply with labor, health and
safety standards in the countries where they and we operate. This
means screening all suppliers and selecting partners that consider
social and environmental factors. Supplier Code of Conduct
Our Supplier Code of Conduct outlines our core principles for supplier conduct, including
We prioritize this responsible supplier engagement and sourcing
compliance with laws and regulations; terms and conditions of employment; discrimination;
practices through foundational standards, policies and core principles
harassment and retaliation; wages and benefits; child labor; health and safety; sustainable
that govern our interactions.
development and environmental protection; data privacy; and anti-corruption and bribery.
We expect suppliers to operate in accordance with these principles and be open and
transparent to our assessment of their compliance with the code.
Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement
Our Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement details our commitment to eradicating
these abhorrent practices, our policies, governance and training regarding these issues.
Human Rights Policy Statement
Our Human Rights Policy Statement contains our explicit commitment to respect
human rights under international standards and protect labor and workplace rights.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 86
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Chemical use and management Industry collaborations and partnerships
GRI 3-3 GRI 2-28
WBA’s existing Responsible Chemical Management Strategy Policy We engage with numerous organizations, competitors, trade associations
Statement continues to govern and assert our commitment to proactive and government entities to seek industry-wide solutions and take meaningful
responsible chemical management for all consumer-owned brand products action toward sustainability. These engagements are crucial to WBA acting
across baby, personal care, beauty and household care portfolios. Our as an industry leader and continuing to drive the industry forward. See
strategy drives innovation for safer alternatives and transparency around Stakeholder Engagement for a full list of our memberships and associations.
our management practices.
The Chemical Action List (CAL) goes beyond regulatory requirements
by adopting positions on chemicals that we have identified as causes
EU EcoBeautyScore Consortium
for concern. We conduct regular reviews of our categories and
substances for new CAL inclusions. To further its efforts to encourage sustainable behaviors for consumers and
help them make better-informed purchases, Boots and No7 Beauty Company
Our CAL includes:
are signatories to the EcoBeautyScore Consortium. The consortium is a
collaboration of major global cosmetics companies that seek to establish
Prohibited List: a transparent global environmental impact scoring system. The scoring
Chemicals on the list must not be present or intentionally added system aims to provide consumers with clear comparable environmental
impact assessments to inform purchasing decisions. This will contribute to
meeting the growing consumer demand for increased transparency about the
environmental impact of cosmetics products, including the formula, packaging
and product usage.
Elimination List:
Chemicals to be eliminated within a defined time period
Sustainable Medicines Partnership
Stewardship List:
Walgreens is a collaborator of the Sustainable Medicines Partnership
Chemicals that do not yet have a formal WBA decision on
(SMP) and member of the Steering Committee. The SMP is a private-
prohibition, elimination, or restriction will be closely monitored
public collaboration executing projects to make the use of medicines
with the potential decision to add them to the Elimination List
more sustainable. The partnership delivers evidence-based integrated
initially, then ultimately to the Prohibited List at a future date
projects, including scalable solutions, frameworks, standards, metrics
and implementation toolkits.
World Wide Fund for Nature and Liz Earle
In fiscal 2023, Liz Earle Beauty Co. and World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF)
launched a three-year partnership to protect the UK’s natural habitats
and help restore biodiversity for future generations. As part of this three-
year partnership, Liz Earle committed to raising funds for WWF to support
Seagrass Project and host overall awareness drives around the importance
of and need to protect biodiversity.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 87
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Responsible
Supply chain mapping and transparency
Developing our people and
GRI 3-3, 308-1, 308-2, 414-11, 414-21
supporting a healthy planet
Sourcing
Our global Supplier Sustainability Program measures suppliers’
sustainability performance per product category with the support of an
GRI 2-24, 3-3, 308-1, 308-2,
online system used for data collection, analysis, reporting and scoring.
414-1, 414-2
The program utilizes The Sustainability Insight System (THESIS), developed
by the nonprofit organization The Sustainability Consortium, a holistic
Reinvent our World class sustainability assessment tool that gauges supplier practices, performance
sourcing model partnerships and management on energy, water, ethics and more. We have seen year-
over-year improvements with our participating owned brand suppliers in
the setting of manufacturing greenhouse gas goals and overall reduction
of plastic usage.
THESIS is key when it comes to making sure suppliers are progressing
on their sustainability journey alongside WBA. It helps us understand
where suppliers are in their sustainability journey and shares guidance
with suppliers on how to advance their own practices for year-over-year
improvement. This two-pronged utilization of THESIS helps competitively
Diversify and expand Evolve drive the industry forward, as suppliers can compare themselves to peers
our sourcing footprint our capability while holding themselves accountable. Improved supplier data collection
from the program has furthered our ability to identify sustainability
opportunities and risks at the product-category level. By identifying risk
and opportunities within our suppliers' practices and supply chains, it enables
us to better direct our efforts in supporting the development of our global
brands and supplier sustainability strategy by providing a clearer view
of how supplier engagement can be targeted.
In fiscal 2023, WBA continued to grow and expand supplier participation
in the tool achieving a 68 percent increase in own brand suppliers completion
of the assessment. This represented over $1.3B in cost of goods.
Third party Cost of goods
sourcing services optimization
Developing our people and
supporting a healthy planet
1 GRI 414-1 and 414-2 required disclosures are within the Deloitte & Touche LLP review scope
as detailed on pages 119-120.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 88
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Ethical sourcing standards Supplier Compliance Assessments2
and supplier engagement
DISCOVER Fiscal 2023 % of total
GRI 2-24, 414-11, 414-21
Please see WBA’s Modern Slavery
Satisfactory 477 46
and Human Trafficking Statement
Aligning to our Ethical Trading Standards, we require suppliers to operate
and Supplier Code of Conduct
in accordance with the core principles outlined in our Supplier Code of Needs Improvement 415 40
for our policies around critical
Conduct, and provide transparency in our Code compliance assessments.
noncompliance and zero Critical 137 13
tolerance violations. Our ethical sourcing program, led by teams of ethical trading experts with
the support of auditors and a small number of preapproved third parties, Zero Tolerance 2 0
helps ensure owned brand suppliers are aware of and compliant with our
ethical standards and expectations. This is achieved through a rigorous 1,031 100
onboarding process elevated by a supplier training webinar designed to
explain our standards and assessment requirements, share opportunities
for suppliers to enhance social and environmental compliance and provide
Satisfactory and Needs Improvement: Meets our ethical trading standards expectations
a forum for supplier questions. We assess 100 percent of our owned brand
but could require differing levels of remedial corrective actions.
suppliers for compliance to our Ethical Trading Standards through on-site
Critical: Falls below the expectations of our ethical trading standards and requires immediate
audits. For high-value goods not for resale (GNFR) suppliers, we use Global
remedial action to address critical noncompliance to enable new or ongoing business relationships.
Risk Management Solutions (GRMS), which includes screenings for social
Zero Tolerance: Issues identified that are not accepted or tolerated by our business and are related
and environment criteria. Supplier training webinars are held regularly in
to incidents of the following, but are not limited to, child labor, convict/indentured/forced labor,
English, Mandarin and Spanish. During fiscal 2023, 281 trainings sessions corporal punishment, slavery and human trafficking, and acts of bribery. In all cases, we view these
were completed by 172 suppliers. Of those, 196 were hosted in English, issues as zero tolerance.
three in Spanish and 82 in Mandarin.
Our owned brand supplier compliance is monitored using a detailed
grading matrix that assesses factory social and environmental performance As the table shows, two zero tolerance violations were detected during fiscal
based on internationally recognized standards, including the Ethical Trading 2023. Both were identified at potential new sites, and therefore we declined
Initiative Base Code and International Labor Organization (ILO) Conventions to begin business with both sites. For sites with critical issues, suppliers have
and Recommendations. Factories with identified non-compliances are been required to develop and implement immediate remedial action plans to
required to complete corrective and preventative action plans to resolve address identified noncompliance. Verification of actions taken are monitored
the issues and are reassessed using a risk-based approach that focuses via submission of appropriate evidence and through on-site reassessment.
on improvement and compliance.
During fiscal 2023 we built upon our Human Rights policy by conducting
We publicly report our owned brands suppliers’ compliance with our a risk mapping and horizon scanning exercise to identify the potential risk
ethical standards. The following table provides a breakdown of our fiscal across all areas where we operate, including our wider supply chain, owned
2023 ethical compliance assessments on new and existing suppliers brands supply chain and operations in multiple geographies. Additionally,
for Boots UK, Walgreens and No7 Beauty Company-owned brands. the online platform used for WBA’s Supplier Sustainability Program has also
enabled us to better identify modern slavery and human rights risks within our
supply chain by capturing social information in Tier 2, Tier 3 and raw materials
suppliers. Please read more about the Supplier Sustainability Program on
page 88.
1 GRI 414-1 and 414-2 required disclosures are within
the Deloitte & Touche LLP review scope as detailed
on pages 119-120.
2 Totals showing - reflect rounding of amounts lower
than 0.5 percent.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 89
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Supplier diversity diverse suppliers in our booths showcasing products such as Lorenzo’s
Frozen Pudding, ECOS, Black Girl Sunscreen, Urban Hydration and Billion
GRI 3-3
Dollar Beauty. Walgreens also had a presence at National Minority Supplier
Development Council (NMSDC), Women's Business Enterprise National
WBA is committed to inclusive communities and understands that when our
Council (WBENC) and the Disability:IN conferences in 2023.
shelves are a reflection of our local communities, it benefits everyone. This
We work with our Tier 1 suppliers to help them increase utilization of diverse
is especially true when it comes to working with a diverse set of suppliers.
suppliers in their own supply chains. In fiscal 2023, Walgreens continued its
Walgreens remains committed to our goal to source goods and services from
partnership with the Women’s Business Development Center, sponsoring
suppliers owned by women, people of color, veterans and service-disabled
additional Top Shelf trainings. Designed to help minority-owned suppliers
veterans, people with disabilities and those who identify as LGBTQ+. This
grow into the mass retail market, the program has graduated 150 participants
focus will continue to provide financial opportunity to businesses owned
since its launch. Walgreens requires its Tier 2 suppliers to report any
by people who may be socially or economically disadvantaged, helping
subcontracting that is done with diverse businesses. In fiscal year 2023,
to address income and employment challenges that can serve as social
our prime suppliers reported over $1.7 billion in spend with diverse suppliers.
determinants of health.
To help Walgreens customers discover diverse brands, we also shared the
WBA set a target to spend $700 million with diverse Tier 1 suppliers in the
stories behind the diverse businesses we work with in a series called Shelf
U.S. by the end of fiscal 2023. This target was an increase of $75 million
Life. In fiscal 2023, Shelf Life featured brands such as Black Girl Sunscreen,
compared with fiscal 2022. We exceeded our target by $26 million. To
Lorenzo’s Frozen Pudding and Gallery Candies.
promote accountability, we tied this to our health equities goals, encouraging
team members and leaders with purchasing authority and decision- WBA believes that supplier diversity delivers a compelling value proposition to
making influence to consider diverse and small businesses for contracting our company, to our patients and customers and to the overall business climate.
opportunities. In fiscal 2023, Boots partnered with RangeMe, the leading
online platform that streamlines new product discovery between brands
and retailers, to enable new, emerging and diverse brands to access Boots’
buying teams. Additionally, to better understand its impact, Walgreens for the
first time conducted an economic impact study of its fiscal 2022 spend with a
focus on diverse businesses. Findings from this report will help further inform
Walgreen's inclusive procurement practices and future spend strategy.
To support diverse suppliers, Walgreens rolled out new special payment
terms for diverse suppliers in fiscal 2023. This gives smaller suppliers more
leniency when it comes to traditional payment terms often exclusively
developed for much larger suppliers. Suppliers who do less than $5 million
in receipts and can prove their certification as a diverse brand are offered the
new payment terms. Walgreens is making additional updates to how diverse
spend is tracked to ensure the data can be used productively and that these
payment terms are offered appropriately.
Walgreens also participated in several summits to help support and identify
new diverse suppliers. In March 2023, Walgreens hosted a Supplier Diversity
Virtual Summit in partnership with RangeMe. This summit expanded on
RangeMe’s work and connected Walgreens with a number of new diverse
suppliers. Walgreens also participated in the Black Women’s Expo in 2023,
an event Walgreens has sponsored for over 10 years. We showcased several
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 90
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Sustainable Materials
Key raw materials
GRI 3-3
GRI 3-3, 308-1, 308-2, 417-1
WBA is committed to improving the traceability of raw materials used in our
At WBA, we are committed to ensuring the ingredients and products to reduce environmental and social impacts. We prohibit the use of
illegally cultivated and harvested sources. Threatened or endangered species
materials used within our owned brand products and packaging
are not to be used in any of our products or their ingredients. We strongly
are safe for our consumers, communities and planet. We strive to
encourage sourcing of raw materials that have been independently certified
reduce the environmental and social impacts of the ingredients
to a recognized environmental, ethical or social standard.
and materials we use by improving their traceability, implementing
Certain raw materials utilized in our products and packaging are associated
third-party certification requirements, protecting the rights of
with higher environmental or social impacts, including conflict minerals,
workers and supporting the responsible sourcing of raw materials.
palm oil, wood, pulp, paper and shea. In addition to our dedicated minimum
requirement standards for these ingredients, we annually report on their
sourcing to reaffirm our commitment to responsible sourcing practices
and track our continued progress.
Data-driven decision making and materials traceability
GRI 3-3, 308-1, 308-2, 417-1
WBA continues to use our Product Sustainability Hub globally to bolster our
collection of product-level sustainability data and supplier disclosures through
the hub's interactive platform. Within the hub, suppliers are required to affirm
compliance with the global minimum product sustainability requirements,
share key raw-material sourcing information about our products as well
as the packaging and provide declarations on sustainability requirements.
The Product Sustainability Hub improves supplier transparency through
global and near-real-time reporting on key product sustainability attributes.
Some examples of information collected include data and certifications on
animal testing, palm oil, plastics (including single-use plastics), wood, pulp,
paper, cotton, high-risk minerals and other materials. For the natural materials
listed above, the Product Sustainability Hub collects information on country
of origin and the level of certification received for each commodity. Of
our active suppliers, 82 percent are providing WBA data via the Product
Sustainability Hub.
At WBA, we support calls for a global ban on animal testing and have
a long-standing Product Testing Policy Statement. We do not conduct
animal testing on our owned brand products or on ingredients used in these
products. In addition, some No7 Beauty Company and Boots brands such
1 Leaping Bunny is the globally recognizable gold standard as Liz Earle, Botanics, 17, Soap & Glory and A Little Something have achieved
for cruelty-free consumer products that follows rigorous Cruelty Free International Leaping Bunny approval1.
criteria applied globally, extending over and above laws
governing animal testing, and include ongoing independent
audits. It is the best assurance for companies with a genuine
commitment to help ending animal testing.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 91
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Palm oil sourcing Pulp and paper sourcing
Palm oil is the world’s most widely used vegetable oil with yields We are committed to working with our suppliers to help ensure wood, pulp
outperforming other vegetable oils due to its efficient land use. However, and paper materials used in our products and packaging are not contributing
in some areas this crop and its production has been linked with environmental to deforestation, ecosystem loss or illegal harvesting. Boots-owned brands
and human rights violations. Understanding its vital importance to many of our and the No7 Beauty Company require all wood, pulp and paper materials
RSPO + PALM OIL SMALLHOLDER
products and the need to ensure sustainable farming practices, Boots was come from verified recycled sources with at least 50 percent post-consumer
FUNDING INITIATIVE
one of the first retailers to join Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) content or from responsibly managed forests.
Koperasi Jasa Mutiara Kongbeng
in 2006. For the first time in calendar 2023, WBA submitted company-wide
is an Indonesian smallholder
owned brand palm oil data for calendar 2022 as part of the RSPO annual
cooperative located in the East
reporting requirement. As another first experienced across the owned
Kutai region, East Kalimantan. This
brand organization reported in calendar 2023, 100 percent palm oil used Shea sourcing
regional cooperative is comprised of
in calendar year 2022 was RSPO certified through the purchase of credits
118 farmers and spans 621 hectares Some of our skincare and beauty brands, such as Liz Earle, use shea
or physical certification.
to produce approximately 14,000 butter as a moisturizer in skincare products. WBA has been a member of the
tonnes of palm fresh fruit bunches, WBA has aligned this report to our RSPO Annual Communication nonprofit Global Shea Alliance (GSA) since fiscal 2019, supporting its mission
annually. Through purchase of RSPO of Progress submission and are reporting for calendar year 2022. to promote industry sustainability, quality practices and standards around
Smallholder Credits directly from the shea butter. Supporting the GSA allows us to help support women who
cooperative, No7 Beauty Company harvest shea in Ghana and to give back to communities that work in
is encouraging the sustainable the shea industry.
100% of palm oil in Walgreens Boots Alliance certified
production and harvesting of palm.
This relationship is more than a in calendar 2022
transaction as the purchase funds
6%
are used towards training in building
additional sustainable practices,
Palm oil derivatives
certification expenses, providing certified using
personal protective equipment (PPE) 19 credits
%
for employees, funding more efficient Palm oil derivatives
farming methods, driving gender physically certified
equity in palm farming and providing
Palm oil used
social assistance to the community. as an ingredient
physically certified
32
%
Palm oil used as an
ingredient certified
43
% using credits
Boots and No7 Beauty Company made a commitment to exceed 80 percent
RSPO physically certified palm oil and derivatives used in its owned brand
products. We are pleased to announce we have exceeded this target in
fiscal 2023.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 92
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Mineral sourcing WBA prohibits the use of conflict minerals — tantalum, tin, tungsten and
gold — where we have direct or significant influence on the manufacturing
WBA is continuously working to ensure any high-risk or conflict minerals
of finished products. To the extent that any conflict minerals are used as raw
in our products are obtained only from ethical sources and suppliers. This
materials or component ingredients in finished WBA-owned brand products,
commitment is consistent with our code of conduct and the Organization
we require suppliers to participate in annual due diligence efforts to confirm
for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) guidance for responsible
that any conflict minerals are obtained from conflict-free sources or sources
supply chains of minerals from conflict-affected and high-risk areas. We have
certified by a third-party audit program.
our Responsible Minerals Sourcing position statement posted in the Product
Sustainability Hub to detail our expectation that suppliers fully disclose the
use of all mineral-based raw materials and component ingredients in
finished products.
Responsible procurement
WBA strives to limit the use of mica and talc in many of our owned brand
Cage-free eggs
product categories due to the high risk of forced or child labor in the
extraction of these minerals. We recognize customers' preferences are changing with improved customer
access to sustainable and ethically sourced products in local communities.
Specific updates and requirements for mica, talc and cobalt include:
In 2016, Walgreens committed to providing 100 percent cage-free shell and
liquid eggs in stores across the U.S. by 2025 and were able to accomplish
Mica:
this goal in calendar 2022 – two full years ahead of schedule. Since 2017,
In fiscal 2023, all our owned brand suppliers that use
Boots has only been offering free-range eggs and free-range egg-derived
mica in our products have confirmed their adherence to
ingredients for all owned brands and exclusive to Boots food products. We
the minimum requirements. We expect all mica in any of
continued these commitments and practices in fiscal 2023.
our finished products to be sourced from a member of
the Responsible Mica Initiative, or a supplier that provides
an appropriate independent third-party audit report or
certificate to demonstrate that responsible sourcing Cotton wool
practices are aligned with the OECD Guidance. Cotton wool has an immense environmental impact from water usage to
biodiversity degradation. Starting in fiscal 2023 and moving forward, Boots
will ensure all cotton wool products in owned-brand products are Global
Organic Textiles Standard (GOTS) certified, meaning the crop is farmed
Talc:
without the use of toxic persistent pesticides or synthetic fertilizers. This
Sources of talc should meet the requirements of the WBA
protects soil fertility, the environment and the health of the cotton farmers
Chemical Action List (CAL), including the verification of no
and their families.
impurities using approved testing methods. We demand
that our suppliers exercise appropriate due diligence Additionally, in fiscal 2023, WBA strengthened our supply chain transparency
to confirm that any talc used is not sourced from illegal approach for products containing cotton due to the ongoing risk of forced
mines. labor and have required suppliers to report accordingly.
Cobalt:
Cobalt is prohibited from use in our cosmetic products.
We set our expectation with suppliers for hard goods
to exercise appropriate due diligence to help ensure
any cobalt used is not sourced from illegal mines in
The Democratic Republic of the Congo.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 93
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Sustainable
Measuring our progress
WBA’s owned brands continued to make progress against our targets
Packaging
throughout fiscal 2023. Through the implementation and execution of our
tools and programs, we engaged with more suppliers and are increasingly
proactive in reducing our impact through our sourcing practices.
GRI 3-3, 301-1, 301-2, 413-1, 417-1
Notable efforts and achievements include:
The issue of packaging waste continues to be a concern Boots and No7 Beauty Company brands have expanded the
for our industry. At WBA, we are doing what we can to help number of products across categories produced from recycled
address the negative impacts packaging waste has on the content, recyclable or natural materials, including reusable makeup
remover pads, cleansing pads, reusable baby wipes, lipsticks and
environment. We have made substantial strides around reducing
compacts as well as eyewear brand, Botaniq.
single-use plastic components in our packaging and have
switched to alternatives, where feasible. Our efforts to make
packaging more sustainable span product design, industry
To support National Recycling Week (Oct. 17 – 23) in the UK,
collaborations, customer education, improved supplier data Boots ran an awareness campaign on the low recycling rates
collection and more. for bathroom (50 percent) versus kitchen (90 percent) products
and shared take-home recycling kits and leaflets with tips along
with other amplification tactics to maximize the campaign’s
effectiveness and staying power.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 94
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Packaging and product design Metrics tonnes of packaging material in owned brand products
(calendar year)3
GRI 3-3, 301-1, 301-2, 306-3
DISCOVER
More on WBA's efforts to find WBA has established public goals to reduce plastic packaging by
2022 2021 YoY Variance
solutions for single-use plastic 30 percent by 2030 for U.S.-owned brands. In fiscal 2023, we continued
pollution can be found here. to make progress toward our target by further reducing plastic in owned- Glass 1,244 1,313 (5.2)%
brand product packaging and design.
Metal 779 873 (10.7)%
We also have a target to ensure 100 percent of owned-brand plastic
Plastic1 12,839 14,444 (11.1)%
packaging is reusable or recyclable and to incorporate an average of
30 percent recycled content across all packaging by 2025 for UK-owned Wood, pulp
18,970 19,775 (4.1)%
brands and by 2030 for U.S.-owned brands. In calendar 2022, Boots and No7 and paper2
Beauty Company maintained their progress as compared to the year prior
with approximately 63 percent of our packaging material made from either
reusable or recyclable materials.
A key element of our plastic packaging efforts includes engaging and
partnering with suppliers to make innovative changes to packaging design,
including reducing total plastics by weight, increasing post-consumer
recycled (PCR) content and enabling higher recyclability rates. Wherever
possible, our new and relaunched products follow guidelines set for suppliers
around packaging type and amount of plastic content present, including the
following requirements to:
1. Optimize the amount of plastic used and minimize the number
of different plastics in the design of packaging components
FUTURE RENEW
In fiscal 2023, No7 Beauty Company 2. Maximize the potential for plastic to be reused or recycled
launched No7 Future Renew, its by consumers
most inclusive skincare brand in
3. Use PCR wherever feasible, aiming for packaging with at least
the company's history. The Future
30 percent minimum (by weight)
Renew range has undergone the
most extensive and diverse testing 4. Seek to eliminate materials that hinder recyclability and unnecessary
program in No7’s history spanning single-use components and materials
37 studies on over 4,200 people,
Our owned brands continued progress toward achieving the UK Plastics
including two clinical trials and
Pact targets. Boots and No7 Beauty Company joined Sustainable Packaging
23 user trials. More than half (51
Initiative for CosmEtics (SPICE), a collaborative initiative that develops
percent) of the total testing group
collective solutions for sustainable packaging for cosmetics in fiscal 2021.
were people of color. This focus on
Boots and No7 Beauty Company use the SPICE Tool and methodology to
inclusivity is a key stepping stone in
assess the environmental impact of cosmetics packaging across a product's
No7's journey as a company and the
life cycle to inform decisions on product design developments.
future of skincare.
1 GRI 306-3 specified disclosures for plastic only are within Deloitte & Touche LLP review scope
as detailed on pages 119-120.
2Excludes pallets.
3 WBA owned brand packaging data is based on supplier responses within our Product Sustainability
Hub portal, of which 76% is actual and 24% is estimated.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 95
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Product labeling
GRI 3-3, 417-1
WBA supplier agreements specify that suppliers must meet
regulatory requirements for labeling of ingredients on our owned
brand products. Under the minimum standard requirements, new
and refreshed WBA-owned brand items must be reviewed to carry
a How2Recycle™ label for U.S. products or an On-Pack Recycling
Label (OPRL) for UK products. We work with the Sustainable
Packaging Coalition on implementing the How2Recycle label on
an increasing number of our products. These labels are designed
to provide customers with clear advice on how to recycle. In the
UK, WBA has representation on the OPRL technical advisory
committee, working on industry-wide solutions involving recycling
labeling. Through our Minimum Sustainability Requirements
and Labeling standards, Boots and No7 Beauty Company have
mandated the use of "Do Not Flush" labeling on products
which have the highest risk of being inappropriately flushed.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 96
Appendix
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
GRI Content Index
Walgreens Boots Alliance has carried out an ongoing exercise to
align our ESG reporting to the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards
(GRI Standards). This report has been prepared in accordance with the
GRI Standards: Core option. This GRI Content Index reflects the material
CSR topics that emerged in our most recent complete ESG materiality
assessment, which was concluded during fiscal 2021.
GRI Disclosure References and responses
GRI 1: FOUNDATION
Reporting Principles and Requirements Our Approach to ESG; page 9
GENERAL DISCLOSURES
GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021
THE ORGANIZATION AND ITS REPORTING PRACTICES
2-1 Organizational details At a Glance; page 6
2-2 Entities included in the At a Glance; page 6
organization's sustainability
reporting
2-3 Reporting period, frequency About This Report; page 3
and contact point A Message to Our Stakeholders; page 4
2-4 Restatements of information Direct Response: We did not make any restatements of information during the
reporting period.
2-5 External assurance About This Report; page 3
Our Approach to ESG; pages 9-10
Assurance Report; pages 119-120
2024 Notice of Annual Meeting and Proxy Statement; page 40
ACTIVITIES AND WORKERS
2-6 Activities, value chain and At a Glance; page 6
other business relationships WBA 2023 Annual Report; pages 1-38
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 98
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
GRI Disclosure References and responses GRI Disclosure References and responses
ACTIVITIES AND WORKERS (cont.) GOVERNANCE
2-7 Employees Diversity, Equity and Inclusion; page 61 and 66 2-9 Governance structure and Governance; pages 21-22
Employee Engagement and Development; pages 68-69 composition Leadership Team
WBA 2023 Annual Report; pages 10-12 2-10 Nomination and selection Governance; pages 21-22
Direct Response: of the highest governance 2024 Notice of Annual Meeting and Proxy Statement; pages 13-57
body
Employees by gender and employment type 1,2 as of Aug. 31, 20233
2-11 Chair of the highest 2024 Notice of Annual Meeting and Proxy Statement; pages 39-40
governance body
Employment All Permanent Temporary Part-time Full-time
type (%) (%) (%) (%) (%)
2-12 Role of the highest Stakeholder Engagement; pages 16-19
Male 29 29 30 26 31
governance body in Governance; pages 21-22
overseeing the management 2024 Notice of Annual Meeting and Proxy Statement; pages 39-40
of impacts
Female 71 71 70 74 69
2-13 Delegation of responsibility Governance; pages 21-22
Undisclosed4 - - - - - for managing impacts
All employees 100 100 100 100 100 2-14 Role of the highest Governance; pages 21-22
governance body in
sustainability reporting
The table below shows the company's employees by region and by type
of employment type. 2-15 Conflicts of interest 2024 Notice of Annual Meeting and Proxy Statement; page 53
Code of Conduct and Ethics: Committed to Integrity; page 20
United U.S.
International Total WBA
States Healthcare 2-16 Communication of critical Direct Response: Critical concerns are elevated to the Board level through our
concerns annual stockholder proposal exercise. The number and nature of the proposals can
Full-time (%) 60 58 89 62 be found in the 2024 Notice of Annual Meeting and Proxy Statement.
2-17 Collective knowledge of the 2024 Notice of Annual Meeting and Proxy Statement; page 16
Part-time (%) 40 42 11 38
highest governance body Code of Conduct and Ethics: Committed to Integrity; page 5
Permanent
100 92 100 98
employees (%) 2-18 Evaluation of the 2024 Notice of Annual Meeting and Proxy Statement; page 50
performance of the highest
WBA Corporate Governance Guidelines (Section 13)
Temporary - 8 - 2 governance body
employees (%)
2-19 Remuneration policies 2024 Notice of Annual Meeting and Proxy Statement; page 68
1E mployees of fully owned and/or consolidated WBA businesses; does not include employees 2-20 Process to determine 2024 Notice of Annual Meeting and Proxy Statement; page 65
of companies in which WBA has equity method investments.
remuneration
2 Does not include contractors because they are not included in our employee figures. Most of our
activities are performed by employees, and seasonal variations do not cause significant variation
2-21 Annual total compensation Employee Engagement and Development; pages 68-69
in our employment figures.
3Fiscal 2023 data within Deloitte & Touche LLP’s review scope as detailed on pages 119-120. ratio Direct Response: The CEO Pay ratio is 407:1. This is a year over year change of
4Totals showing zeros reflect rounding of amounts lower than 0.5%. (42%) from fiscal 2022.
STRATEGY, POLICIES AND PRACTICES
2-8 Workers who are not Employee Engagement and Development; pages 68-69
employees Direct Response: At the end of fiscal 2023, we have 21,957 non-employee workers. 2-22 Statements on sustainable A Message to Our Stakeholders; page 4
Most of these non-employee workers are in the areas of IT and Accounting. We development strategy Q&A with Our ESG Committee Chair; page 5
have contracts with consulting services who directly employ these workers. Our Purpose, Vision and Values; page 6
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 99
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
GRI Disclosure References and responses GRI Disclosure References and responses
STRATEGY, POLICIES AND PRACTICES (cont.) STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT (cont.)
2-23 Policy commitments Governance; pages 21-23 MATERIAL TOPICS
Our Owned Brands; pages 85-86
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021
Code of Conduct and Ethics: Committed to Integrity
Environmental, Social and Governance Policy Statements; page 9
3-1 Process to determine ESG Materiality; pages 11-13
Direct Response: Walgreens Boots Alliance does not have a policy regarding the material topics TCFD Response; pages 111-115
precautionary principle or approach. We are involved with a number of externally
developed initiatives, as listed in the Stakeholder Engagement section of this Direct Response on In-store health services: New in-store health service
Report. locations decreased 8 percent, driven primarily by the elimination of the Jenny
Craig partnership. We continue to expand diagnostic lab locations through our
2-24 Embedding policy Governance; pages 21-23 collaboration with LabCorp1.
statements Responsible Sourcing; pages 88-90 1 This KPI maps to Material Topic 1: Access to Affordable and Quality Healthcare and is within the
Deloitte & Touche LLP review scope as detailed on pages 119-120.
2-25 Processes to remediate ESG Materiality; pages 11-13 3-2 List of material topics ESG Materiality; pages 11-13
negative impacts Direct Response: The latest WBA materiality assessment was conducted in 2020
GRI 200 ECONOMIC STANDARDS SERIES
and looked ahead to the next several years. The scope of the materiality project,
particularly during the interview and workshop stages, included consideration of
ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
areas where Walgreens Boots Alliance has potentially negative impacts as well as
activities creating positive results. We place importance on the provision of effective GRI 3: Material Topics 2021
remedy wherever human rights impacts occur through company-based grievance
mechanisms. We encourage anyone who works for or on behalf of Walgreens Boots 3-3 Management of material At a Glance; page 6
Alliance to speak up, without fear of retaliation, about any complaints or concerns they topics Our Approach to ESG; pages 9-10
may have in relation to human rights. We expect our suppliers and business partners ESG Materiality; pages 11-13
to make the same commitment. This is stated in the WBA Human Rights Policy TCFD Response; pages 111-115
Statement. We commit to promoting a grievance mechanism for team members to
raise complaints or concerns. We would never impede access to state-based judicial GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016
or non-judicial mechanisms for individuals or communities who feel their human rights
201-1 Direct economic value At a Glance; page 6
have been impacted. Stakeholder feedback, particularly from patients and customers,
is captured and tracked across WBA. generated and distributed Giving Back: Corporate Donations and Supporting Causes; pages 46-51
Employee Engagement and Development; pages 68-69
2-26 Mechanisms for seeking Governance; pages 21-25 WBA 2023 Annual Report; pages 1, 10, 47
advice and raising concerns Employee Health, Safety and Well-being; pages 58-67
201-2 Financial implications and TCFD Response; pages 111-115
Code of Conduct and Ethics: Committed to Integrity
other risks and opportunities WBA 2023 Annual Report; pages 13, 20-21, 23
due to climate change
2-27 Compliance with laws and Governance; page 23 201-3 Defined benefit plan Direct Response: Plan's liabilities vary by plan. In some cases a plan might be
regulations Direct Response: Record of non-compliance and legal disputes can be found obligations and other funded through a segregated plan trust or liabilities may not exist because a plan
in our 2023 Annual Report. retirement plans might not be a pension plan. You can find information on plan liabilities in the fiscal
WBA 2023 Annual Report on pages 107-111. For the U.S., Puerto Rico, and WBA
2-28 Membership associations Stakeholder Engagement; pages 16-19 and 87
Inc. participation rates are 49 percent, 70 percent and 37 percent respectively. For
Boots UK, the participation rate is approximately 70 percent.
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
201-4 Financial assistance Direct Response: The Company received nearly $57 million in tax credits in
2-29 Approach to stakeholder ESG Materiality; pages 11-13
received from government fiscal 2023. The company has received tax holidays from Swiss cantonal income
engagement Stakeholder Engagement; pages 16-19
taxes relative to certain of its Swiss operations. The income tax holidays expired
in September 2022. Upon expiration, a reduced tax rate was extended through
2-30 Collective bargaining Employee Engagement and Development; pages 68-69
December 2029. The holidays had a beneficial impact of $9 million, $104 million
agreements
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 100
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
GRI Disclosure References and responses GRI Disclosure References and responses
ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE (cont.) INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS (cont.)
and $118 million (inclusive of capital GILTI tax cost) during fiscal 2023, 2022, and Stakeholder Engagement; pages 16-19
2021, respectively. This benefit is primarily included as part of the foreign income Health Access and Awareness; pages 31-39
taxed at non-U.S. rates line in the effective tax rate reconciliation table in the Partnerships for Good; pages 42-45
WBA 2023 Annual Report on page 106. WBA is a publicly traded company on the
NASDAQ and the Dow Jones Industrial Index. Norge Bank Investment Management
is a shareholder of WBA. Their current stake, shares owned, and value can be found GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 2016
through online disclosures.
203-1 Infrastructure investments Health Access and Awareness; pages 31, 34-35, 38
Omission: Explanation for Omission: WBA does not disclose financial assistance and services supported Digital Healthcare Access; pages 40-41
received by any government by country as this information could be used to
Partnerships for Good; pages 42-45
generate a strategic competitive advantage if shared publicly.
Giving Back: Corporate Donations and Supporting Causes; pages 46-51
Reason for Omission: Confidentiality Constraints Prescription Misuse Prevention; page 55
MARKET PRESENCE
203-2 Significant indirect Health Access and Awareness; pages 31, 34-35 and 38-39
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021
economic impacts
3-3 Management At a Glance; page 6
ANTI-CORRUPTION
of material topics Our Approach to ESG; pages 9-10
ESG Materiality; pages 11-13 GRI 3: Material Topics 2021
Stakeholder Engagement; pages 16-19
Healthy and Inclusive Workplace; pages 58-67
3-3 Management Our Approach to ESG; pages 9-10
of material topics ESG Materiality; pages 11-13
GRI 202: Market Presence 2016 Responsible Sourcing; pages 88-90
Our Owned Brands; pages 85-87
202-1 Ratios of standard entry level Direct Response: Ratio of our standard entry-level hourly wage to local minimum
Walgreens Boots Alliance Code of Conduct and Business Ethics; page 26
wage by gender compared wage varies depending on minimum wage standards by location. For our U.S.
to local minimum wage Walgreens business operating in all 50 states, our starting hourly wage for all team GRI 205: Anti-Corruption 2016
members is $15.00 an hour. The company consistently reviews wages guidelines to
make updates where needed. 205-1 Operations assessed for risks Direct Response: Please refer to the Code of Conduct and Ethics (page 21), 2024
In April of 2023 Boots UK applied wage increases to its payroll, enabling the related to corruption Notice of Annual Meeting and Proxy Statement (pages 32-34, Risk Management)
business to continue paying above the national minimum wage for those with six and WBA 2023 Annual Report (page 14, 32, Risk factors) for how the Company
months experience or more in the business. assesses and mitigates significant risks related to corruption.
Standard entry level wage does not vary by gender. Omission
In addition, we strive to work with suppliers who maintain WBA’s commitment to fair Part of Disclosure Omitted: Total number and percentage of operations assessed
wages and hours for all workers. for risks related to corruption
Reason for Omission: Business confidential
202-2 Proportion of senior Direct response: For both U.S. and UK, 100% of senior management have been
Explanation for Omission: Reasons for limiting disclosure include, but are not limited
management hired from the hired from the local community. Senior management is Sr. Directors and above.
to, confidentiality.
local community "Local" is defined by country, as we operate globally. Significant location of
operation is based on sales. 205-2 Communication and training Direct Response: WBA strives to maintain high ethical standards. WBA’s Code of
about anti-corruption Conduct and Ethics extends and is publicly available to all WBA officers, employees,
INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS
policies and procedures any officers or employees of a business or company in which WBA or any of its
subsidiaries has a controlling interest, and other parties acting on behalf of WBA
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021
no matter where they are located in the world. A WBA employee is any employee
3-3 Management At a Glance; page 6 of Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc. or any of its subsidiary companies. The Code
of material topics Our Approach to ESG; pages 9-10 also extends to any officers and employees of a business or company in which
Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc. or any of its subsidiaries has a controlling interest.
ESG Materiality; pages 11-13
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 101
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
GRI Disclosure References and responses GRI Disclosure References and responses
ANTI-CORRUPTION (cont.) ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR (cont.)
It also extends to other parties acting on behalf of Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc. GRI 300 ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS SERIES
or any of its subsidiaries, such as consultants, agents, intermediaries or other
representatives of WBA, including our board of directors. WBA strives to maintain MATERIALS
high ethical standards and requires its employees and others doing business with
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021
WBA, including its consultants, agents, intermediaries, and representatives, to
comply with all applicable anti-bribery and corruption laws and other regulations
3-3 Management of material Our Approach to ESG; pages 9-10
that prohibit bribery, solicitation of bribery and the payment of kickbacks.
topics ESG Materiality; pages 11-13
Each WBA business and corporate function is accountable for implementation
Stakeholder Engagement; pages 16-19
of the Company’s policies on this issue, including ensuring ongoing, tailored
communication for relevant employees. Each business and corporate function must Waste and Plastics; pages 78-82
also ensure that appropriate training is available to employees and associated Our Owned Brands; pages 85-87
persons whose roles involve risk related to this area. The Company expects our Sustainable Packaging; pages 94-96
suppliers to adopt responsible processes and practices and the quality of goods or
services provided to us to meet the standards set out in the Code and applicable GRI 301: Materials 2016
policies. It is WBA’s intention to source from suppliers who can satisfy our standards
with regard to anti-corruption or who have given a commitment to achieve these
301-1 Materials used by weight Sustainable Packaging; pages 94-95
or volume
standards within an agreed time frame. Sourcing responsibly is our approach
to achieving these standards with suppliers. Any corrupt, improper or unethical
301-2 Recycled input Sustainable Packaging; pages 94-95
behavior in dealings with suppliers is prohibited.
materials used Direct Response: We do not currently have the capabilities to track recycled
material input outside of recycled plastic and wood input in the packaging of our
205-3 Confirmed incidents of Direct Response: In this reporting period, there have not been any instances of public
Walgreens and Boots owned brands.
corruption and actions taken legal cases regarding corruption brought against the Company or its employees.
Omission 301-3 Reclaimed products and Waste and Plastics; pages 78-82
Part of Disclosure Omitted: Total number and nature of confirmed incidents of their packaging materials
corruption; Total number of confirmed incidents in which employees were dismissed
or disciplined for corruption; And total number of confirmed incidents when ENERGY
contracts with business partners were terminated or not renewed due to violations
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021
related to corruption.
Reason for Omission: Business confidential 3-3 Management of Our Approach to ESG; pages 9-10
Explanation for Omission: Reasons for limiting disclosure include, but are not limited material topics Stakeholder Engagement; pages 16-19
to, confidentiality.
Energy and Emissions; pages 72-77
ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR
GRI 302: Energy 2016
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021
302-1 Energy consumption within GHG Statement
the organization
3-3 Management of material Our Approach to ESG; pages 9-10
topics ESG Materiality; pages 11-13
302-2 Energy consumption outside Omission
Stakeholder Engagement; pages 16-19 of the organization Part of Disclosure Omitted: Energy consumption outside of the organization.
Our Owned Brands; pages 85-87
Reason for Omission: Information unavailable
Walgreens Boots Alliance Code of Conduct and Business Ethics; page 21 Explanation for Omission: WBA does not have this information available
for energy consumption outside of the organization.
GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behavior 2016
206-1 Legal actions for anti- Direct Response: We disclose all material litigation, including matters related to 302-3 Energy Intensity GHG Statement
competitive behavior, anti- competition law, as required in our WBA 2023 Annual Report and quarterly reports
302-4 Reduction of energy Omission
trust, and monopoly practices filed with the SEC. We make these reports publicly available under “SEC Filings” at
consumption Part of Disclosure Omitted: Amount of reduction in energy consumption.
investor.walgreensbootsalliance.com.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 102
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
GRI Disclosure References and responses GRI Disclosure References and responses
ENERGY (cont.) EMISSIONS (cont.)
Reason for Omission: Information unavailable. Scope 1 and 2 location-based emissions per million USD sales (using net sales). Gasses
Explanation for Omission: WBA does not have this information available included in the calculation are carbon dioxide (CO), methane (CH) and nitrous oxide
2 4
for amount of reduction in energy consumption. (NO). We believe that hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) may be material to the Company, and
2
we are implementing processes that will allow for reporting on HFCs in future reports.
302-5 Reductions in energy Direct Response: We do not currently have the capabilities to track reductions in
requirements of products energy requirements of sold products and services achieved during the reporting 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Energy and Emissions; pages 72-76
and services period. Direct Response: GHG emissions are reported in metric tonnes of carbon dioxide
equivalents (COe) and include three of the seven GHGs covered by the Kyoto
EMISSIONS Protocol: carbon2 dioxide (CO ), methane (CH ) and nitrous oxide (N O). These three
2 4 2
gases are also reported separately. The following three greenhouse gases were
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021
omitted from our reporting as they are not a material source of greenhouse gases
3-3 Evaluation of the Our Approach to ESG; pages 9-10 for the business: perfluorocarbons (PFCs), sulfur hexafluoride (SF 6) and nitrogen
management approach Stakeholder Engagement; pages 16-19 trifluoride (NF 3). We believe that hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) may be material to the
Company as they are used within refrigeration and cooling. We are implementing
Energy and Emissions; pages 72-77
processes that will allow reporting on HFCs in future reporting.
GRI 305: Emissions 2016
305-6 Emissions of ozone- Direct Response: Trichlorofluoromethane (CFC-11) is not applicable to our business
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG Energy and Emissions; pages 72-75 depleting substances (ODS) operations. We therefore do not track this.
emissions Gasses included in the calculation are carbon dioxide (“CO ”), methane (“CH ”) and
2 4 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur Direct Response: Nitrogen Oxides (NOx) and Sulfur Oxides (SOx) are not applicable
nitrous oxide (“N O”). We believe that hydrofluorocarbons ("HFCs") may be material
2 (SOx) and other significant to our business operations. We therefore do not track this.
to the Company and we are implementing processes that will allow for reporting on
air emissions
HFCs in future reports.
Source of the emission factors and the global warming potential (GWP) rate used: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE
AR6 Emission Factors; U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Emissions &
General Resource Integrated Database; UK Department for Environment, Food & GRI 3: Material Topics 2021
Rural Affairs (DEFRA); and international Energy Agency (IEA).
3-3 Management of material Our Approach to ESG: pages 9-10
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) Energy and Emissions; pages 72-75 topics Stakeholder Engagement; pages 16-19
GHG emissions Gasses included in the calculation are carbon dioxide (“CO ”), methane (“CH ”) and Waste and Plastics; pages 78-81
2 4
nitrous oxide (“N O”). We believe that hydrofluorocarbons ("HFCs") may be material
2 GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2020
to the Company and we are implementing processes that will allow for reporting on
HFCs in future reports.
306-1 Waste generation and Waste and Plastics; pages 78-82
Source of the emission factors and the global warming potential (GWP) rate used: significant waste-related
AR6 Emission Factors; U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Emissions & impacts
General Resource Integrated Database; UK Department for Environment, Food &
Rural Affairs (DEFRA); and international Energy Agency (IEA). 306-2 Management of significant Waste and Plastics; pages 78-82
waste-related impacts
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) Energy and Emissions; pages 72-75
GHG emissions Gasses included in the calculation are carbon dioxide (“CO ”), methane (“CH ”) and 306-3 Waste generated Waste and Plastics; pages 78-79
nitrous oxide (“N O”). We believe that hydrofluorocarbons ("2 HFCs") may be m4 aterial Sustainable Packaging; page 95
2
to the Company and we are implementing processes that will allow for reporting on
306-4 Waste diverted from disposal Waste and Plastics; pages 78-80
HFCs in future reports.
Total Weight of Waste Diverted From Disposal:
Source of the emission factors and the global warming potential (GWP) rate used:
• Onsite - 195,073 metric tons
AR6 Emission Factors; U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Emissions &
General Resource Integrated Database; UK Department for Environment, Food & • Offsite - 459,290 metric tons
Rural Affairs (DEFRA); and international Energy Agency (IEA). Onsite waste consists of diverted reusable totes while offsite waste accounts for all
other diverted waste. 195,073 metric tons of waste are handled onsite and 459,290
305-4 GHG Emissions Intensity Energy and Emissions; pages 72-75 are handled offsite.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 103
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
GRI Disclosure References and responses GRI Disclosure References and responses
EFFLUENTS AND WASTE (cont.) EMPLOYMENT (cont.)
306-5 Waste directed to disposal Waste and Plastics; pages 78-79 The table below shows the number and rate of new employee hires by region.
SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
United States International1 U.S. Healthcare
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021
New employee
3-3 Management of material At a Glance; page 6 154,571 15,692 1,211
hires
topics Our Approach to ESG; pages 9-10
ESG Materiality; pages 11-13 Rate of new 67% 24% 32%
employee hires
Stakeholder Engagement; pages 16-19
Waste and Plastics; pages 78-82
Our Owned Brands; pages 85-87
Responsible Sourcing; pages 88-90
The table below shows the number and rate of new employee hires and employee
Sustainable Materials; page 91
turnover as of Aug. 31, 20232
GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016
308-1 New suppliers that Responsible Sourcing; pages 88-90 Employment type <30 30-50 50+ Male Female UD3
were screened using Sustainable Materials; pages 91-93
environmental criteria
New employee
114,260 42,689 14,542 55,561 115,920 10
308-2 Negative environmental Responsible Sourcing; pages 88-90 hires
impacts in the supply chain Sustainable Materials; page 91
and actions taken Direct Response: One supplier relationship was terminated during the 2023 Rate of new 38% 14% 5% 19% 39% -
employee hires
fiscal year.
Employee turnover 86,602 42,089 14,858 43,121 100,424 4
GRI 400 SOCIAL STANDARDS SERIES
Rate of employee
29% 14% 5% 15% 34% -
turnover
EMPLOYMENT
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021
3-3 Evaluation of the Our Approach to ESG; pages 9-10
management approach ESG Materiality; pages 11-13 1 Employees of US Retail Pharmacy, US Healthcare, and International are included; does not include
Stakeholder Engagement; pages 16-19 employees of companies in which WBA has equity method investments and is not a majority
Healthy and Inclusive Workplace; pages 58-67 owner.
2 Does not include contractors because they are not included in our employee figures. Most of our
GRI 401: Employment 2016 activities are performed by employees, and seasonal variations do not cause significant variation
in our employment figures.
401-1 New employee hires and Employee turnover1,2 as of Aug. 31, 2023 3UD = Undisclosed
employee turnover
Voluntary Involuntary Total Employee 401-2 Benefits provided to full- Healthy and Inclusive Workplace; pages 58-67
Turnover (%) Turnover (%) Turnover (%) time employees that are not
provided to temporary or
United States 44 11 54 part-time employees
International 26 2 28
U.S. Healthcare 10 12 23
WBA 39 9 48
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 104
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
GRI Disclosure References and responses GRI Disclosure References and responses
EMPLOYMENT (cont.) OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY (cont.)
401-3 Parental leave The table below shows return to work and retention rates of employees are carried out on all work-related activities that carry health, safety and
that took parental leave by gender as of Aug. 31, 2023 environmental risks, and that all mitigating controls required by these assessments
are implemented promptly as appropriate. Each segment, business and corporate
function must have written, fit-for-purpose health, safety and environmental
Female Male UD1 Total
standards – informed by local legislative requirements — that cover the areas
Employees eligible of risk relevant to its operations as well as a compliance program that includes
70,423 36,193 9 106,625
for parental leave regular health, safety and environmental audits. Every business must have in
place processes for investigating accidents and near misses to help ensure that
Employees who 4,496 2,030 - 6,526 the root causes of health, safety and environmental incidents are fully identified
took parental leave and addressed. In addition to internal investigative processes, the Occupational
Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) in the U.S. assesses risks, recommends
Employees who
improvements and enforces industry standards. In the UK, primary authorities are
returned to work 2,677 1,240 - 3,917
consulted on health and safety and environmental matters, for which they may
from parental leave
provide assured advice. As outlined in employee handbooks, policies, and contracts
Employees who of employment, all employees, agency staff, consultants, and onsite contractors
returned from must engage fully in the management of health, safety, and environmental matters
2,181 1,033 - 3,214
parental leave and of segments, businesses and corporate functions. Any concerns about misconduct
worked 12 months or hazardous conditions that may threaten workplace safety should always be
reported. WBA does not tolerate retaliation against anyone who raises a legal or
ethical concern, reports misconduct in good faith or participates in an investigation.
1UD = Undisclosed
403-3 Occupational health services Governance; page 23
Employee Health, Safety and Well-being; pages 58-60
403-4 Worker participation, Governance; page 23
OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY consultation, and Health and Safety; page 25
communication on Employee Health, Safety and Well-being; pages 58-60
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 occupational health
and safety
3-3 Evaluation of the Our Approach to ESG; pages 9-10
management approach ESG Materiality; pages 11-13 403-5 Worker training on Health and Safety; page 25
Stakeholder Engagement; pages 16-19 occupational health and Employee Health, Safety and Well-being; pages 58-60
safety
Governance; pages 21-28
Healthy and Inclusive Workplace; pages 58-67 403-6 Promotion of worker health Health and Safety; page 25
Workplace Safety; page 58 Employee Health, Safety and Well-being; pages 58-60
Code of Conduct and Ethics; page 14
403-7 Prevention and mitigation Health and Safety; page 25
GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018 of occupational health and Employee Health, Safety and Well-being; pages 58-60
safety impacts directly linked
403-1 Occupational health and Health and Safety; page 25 by business relationships
safety management system Employee Health, Safety and Well-being; page 58
403-81 Workers covered by an Direct Response: WBA has implemented key elements of a health, safety and
403-2 Hazard identification, risk Health and Safety; page 25 occupational health and environmental system in all markets covering all employees. Safety management
assessment, and incident Employee Health, Safety and Well-being; pages 58-60 safety management system systems, internal and external auditing processes are in place in several larger
investigation Direct Response: Each WBA segment, business and corporate function must markets covering all employees.
designate a director from its management or operating committee to hold specific Omission
responsibility for management of all health, safety and environmental matters in its
Part of Disclosure Omitted: Workers who are not employees, and an annual internal
operations. The director must ensure that ongoing comprehensive risk assessments
or external audit process of the management system.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 105
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
GRI Disclosure References and responses GRI Disclosure References and responses
OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY (cont.) DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY (cont.)
Reason for Omission: Information unavailable GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016
Explanation for Omission: Safety arrangements are commonly in place but are not
405-1 Diversity of governance Governance; page 22
always structured as recognized safety management systems, and in at least one
bodies and employees Diversity, Equity and Inclusion; pages 61-67
market they do not always cover non-employee workers. An annual internal and
external audit process of the management system is not applied across all markets. 2024 Notice of Annual Meeting and Proxy Statement; page 18
Systems and approaches are evolving in some markets. Legal agreements limit
405-2 Ratio of basic salary and Adjusted Gender Pay Difference* (Basic salary only)
and exclude certain responsibilities for record keeping or annual training in some
remuneration of women to • Executives - 101.2%
markets.
men
• Managers - 97.91%
1 GRI 403-8 required disclosures are within the Deloitte & Touche LLP review scope as detailed
on pages 119-120. • All Non- Management Employees - 99.77%
• Overall - 99.55%
TRAINING AND EDUCATION
*US team members only
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021
LOCAL COMMUNITIES
3-3 Evaluation of the Stakeholder Engagement; pages 16-19
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016
management approach Employee Engagement and Development; pages 68-69
3-3 Management of material Our Approach to ESG; pages 9-10
GRI 404: Training and Education 2016
topics ESG Materiality; pages 11-13
404-1 Average hours of training Employee Engagement and Development; pages 68-69 Stakeholder Engagement; pages 16-19
per year per employee Direct Response: Walgreens full-time equivalent team members received an Partnerships for Good; pages 42-45
average of 29 hours of training per person. Male received 27 hours and female
Giving Back: Corporate Donations and Supporting Causes; pages 46-51
received 30 hours of training.
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion; pages 61-67
Omission
Responsible Sourcing; pages 88-90
Part of Disclosure Omitted: Employee category
Direct Response: For all our major programs we conduct regular analyses to review
Reason for Omission: Information unavailable
our methods, activities, impact and return on resource investment. Based on these
reviews, we decide to continue, modify or discontinue programs. Community
404-2 Programs for upgrading Employee Engagement and Development; pages 68-69
engagement is reviewed in aggregate by operating segments quarterly, to
employee skills and transition
determine alignment with our ESG strategy.
assistance programs
404-3 Percentage of employees Employee Engagement and Development; pages 68-69 GRI 413: Local Communities 2016
receiving regular Direct Response: 98% of Walgreens team members receive performance 413-1 Operations with local Fiscal 2023 Achievements and Recognition; pages 7-8
performance and career appraisals. See Employee Health, Safety and Well-being for more information
development reviews on appraisals and workforce data. community engagement, Health Access and Awareness; pages 31-34 and 39
impact assessments, and
Partnerships for Good; pages 42-45
development programs
DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY Giving Back: Corporate Donations and Supporting Causes; pages 46-47
Information and Education; page 52
GRI 103: Material Topics 2021
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion; page 61-63
3-3 Evaluation of the Our Approach to ESG; pages 9-10 Waste and Plastics; page 78-82
management approach ESG Materiality; pages 11-13
Sustainable Packaging; pages 94-96
Stakeholder Engagement; pages 16-19
Direct Response: Substantially all of our operations have implemented local
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion; pages 61-67
community engagement. The WBA ESG framework gives our businesses across
ESG Policy Statements, Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Policy Statement the world the flexibility to engage with local communities based on the relevant
2024 Notice of Annual Meeting and Proxy Statement; page 116 social, environmental and economic context. Our businesses engage with local
Code of Conduct and Ethics; page 12 and national organizations that share our purpose, values and ethics in order to
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 106
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
GRI Disclosure References and responses GRI Disclosure References and responses
LOCAL COMMUNITIES (cont.) PUBLIC POLICY
understand where they can have the biggest impact. Engagement channels differ GRI 3: Material Topics
from business to business. Impact assessments are generally conducted for key
national ESG programs and are delivered jointly with the partnering organization. 3-3 Evaluation of the Our Approach to ESG; pages 9-10
The Healthy Communities section of this report contains a number of examples management approach ESG Materiality; pages 11-13
of the impact of such programs. Many programs have impacts felt on national or
GRI 415: Public Policy 2016
global levels, but they are enacted most thoughtfully in the communities we serve.
In the U.S., Walgreens engagement with local community development programs
415-1 Political contributions 2024 Notice of Annual Meeting and Proxy Statement; page 40
is decentralized and based on local needs. Employees are involved with local
Political Engagement and Contributions Policy
organizations and participate in health-related events and support local causes of
greatest priority. Walgreens representatives frequently participate in forums and
CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY
consortiums to contribute to community consultations and research, which often
focus on health disparities and social inequities of vulnerable groups. In the UK, GRI 3: Material Topics 2021
Boots works with long-term national partners to support local communities.
3-3 Management of material Our Approach to ESG; pages 9-10
WBA provides opportunities for any of our consumers to give feedback and to
raise grievance through online or telephonic mechanism. This would provide
topics ESG Materiality; pages 11-13
opportunities for local grievances to be addressed. Stakeholder Engagement; pages 16-19
Governance; pages 24-28
413-2 Operations with significant Direct Response: Based on our sector, this is not relevant to our business. We are Sustainable Materials; pages 91-93
actual and potential creating economic opportunity and access to essential products and services. Employee Health, Safety and Well-being; pages 58-69
negative impacts on local
Product Safety; page 26
communities
GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 2016
SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT
416-1 Assessment of the health Health and Safety; pages 25-26
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021
and safety impacts of
product and service
3-3 Management of material Our Approach to ESG; pages 9-10
categories
topics ESG Materiality; pages 11-13
Stakeholder Engagement; pages 16-19 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance Health and Safety; pages 25-26
Our Owned Brands; pages 85-87 concerning the health and Direct Response: WBA has not identified any incidents of non-compliance
Responsible Sourcing; pages 88-90 safety impacts of products with regulations or voluntary codes in fiscal year 2023.
Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement and services
Code of Conduct and Ethics; page 26
MARKETING AND LABELING
GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016
414-1 New suppliers that were Responsible Sourcing; pages 88-90
3-3 Evaluation of the Our Approach to ESG; pages 9-10
screened using social
management approach Stakeholder Engagement; pages 16-19
criteria
Sustainable Packaging; pages 94-96
414-2 Negative social impacts in Responsible Sourcing; pages 88-90
the supply chain and actions GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 2016
Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement
taken
Direct Response: Two zero tolerance violations were detected during fiscal 2023. 417-1 Requirements for product Health and Safety; pages 25-26
One with a potential new supplier which resulted in no relationship. One with an and service information and Waste and Plastics; pages 78-82
existing supplier which resulted in WBA not actively purchasing from vendor. labeling Sustainable Materials; pages 91-93
Sustainable Packaging; pages 94-96
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 107
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
GRI Disclosure References and responses GRI Disclosure References and responses
MARKETING AND LABELING (cont.) ACCESS TO AFFORDABLE AND QUALITY HEALTHCARE
417-2 Incidents of non-compliance Health and Safety; pages 25-26 GRI 3: Material Topics 2021
concerning product and Direct Response: WBA has not identified any incidents of non-compliance with
service information and regulations or voluntary codes in fiscal year 2023. 3-3 Management of material Our Approach to ESG; pages 9-10
labeling topics ESG Materiality; pages 11-13
Health Access and Awareness; pages 31-39
Partnerships for Good; pages 42-45
417-3 Incidents of non-compliance Health and Safety; pages 25-26
concerning marketing Direct Response: WBA has not identified any incidents of non-compliance with
CONSUMER HEALTH EDUCATION AND MARKETING
communications regulations or voluntary codes in fiscal year 2023.
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021
CUSTOMER PRIVACY 3-3 Management of material Our Approach to ESG; pages 9-10
topics ESG Materiality; pages 11-13
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021
Health Access and Awareness; pages 31-39
3-3 Management of material Our Approach to ESG; pages 9-10
Partnerships for Good; pages 42-45
topics ESG Materiality; pages 11-13
Stakeholder Engagement; pages 16-19
Information Security; page 27
PRESCRIPTION DRUG ABUSE
Patient and Customer Privacy; page 28
Code of Conduct and Ethics; page 33 GRI 3: Material Topics 2021
3-3 Management of material Our Approach to ESG; pages 9-10
GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016 topics ESG Materiality; pages 11-13
Stakeholder Engagement; pages 16-19
418-11 Substantiated complaints Information Security; page 27
Health Access and Awareness; pages 31-39
concerning breaches of Patient and Customer Privacy; page 28
WBA Position Statement: Opioid Epidemic in the United States
customer privacy and losses
Direct Response: For the portion of our pharmacy business that operates in the
of customer data
U.S., we publicly report breaches to the United States Department of Health and CANCER CURE AND PREVENTION
Human Services Office for Civil Rights (OCR). Click here for a link to the OCR breach
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021
reporting portal. For the portion of our pharmacy business that operates outside
the U.S., including in the European Economic Area, we report data breaches to the
3-3 Evaluation of the Our Approach to ESG; pages 9-10
relevant data protection authorities in compliance with law
management approach ESG Materiality; pages 11-13
Omission Stakeholder Engagement; pages 16-19
Part of Disclosure Omitted: Data disclosure incidents not related to pharmacy GRI Partnerships for Good; pages 42-45
Disclosure References and responses
CUSTOMER RESPONSIBILITY
Reason for Omission: Information unavailable
Explanation for Omission: Due to a lack of common definitions for reporting GRI 3: Material Topics 2021
customer data disclosure incidents across industries and multiple jurisdictions, there
is a concern that reporting customer data disclosure incidents could be confusing or 3-3 Management of material At a Glance; page 6
misleading, especially as it applies to our businesses that operate on a business-to topics Our Approach to ESG; pages 9-10
business service model and in retail. ESG Materiality; pages 11-13
1 GRI 418-1 required disclosures are within the Deloitte & Touche LLP review scope as detailed on Stakeholder Engagement; pages 16-19
pages 119-120. Health and Safety; page 25
Information Security; page 27
Patient and Customer Privacy; page 28
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 108
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
GRI Disclosure References and responses
CHEMICAL USE AND MANAGEMENT
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021
3-3 Evaluation of the Our Approach to ESG; pages 9-10
management approach ESG Materiality; pages 11-13
Stakeholder Engagement; pages 16-19
Sustainable Materials; page 91
INNOVATION AND DIGITALIZATION
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021
3-3 Management of Our Approach to ESG; pages 9-10
material topics ESG Materiality; pages 11-13
Stakeholder Engagement; pages 16-19
Health Access and Awareness; pages 31-39
TOBACCO SALES
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021
3-3 Management of Our Approach to ESG; pages 9-10
material topics ESG Materiality; pages 11-13
Stakeholder Engagement; pages 16-19
Health Access and Awareness; pages 31-39
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 109
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
SASB Index
The Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Standards are independent
standards for ESG disclosures maintained by the International Sustainability Standards
Board ("ISSB"). The SASB reporting standards are industry-specific, covering ESG
reporting criteria for 77 industries to meet investor needs. The table below is WBA’s SASB
Index1, which includes disclosures as part of the drug retailers industry, which includes
companies that operate retail pharmacies and distribution centers that supply retail stores.
Drug Retailers Standard Drug Retailers Standard
Topic Metric Category Code Response Topic Metric Category Code Response
ACCOUNTING METRICS ACTIVITY METRICS
Energy (1) Total energy consumed, Quantitative HC-DR-130a.1 (1) 15,818,645 GJ Activity Number of pharmacy locations Quantitative HC-DR-000.A Fiscal 2023 Annual Report
Management (2) Percentage grid electricity, (2) 69.4% Metrics identifies 12,661 retail stores
in Retail of which 12,476 have pharmacies.
(3) Percentage renewable (3) 4.8%
Total area of retail space Quantitative HC-DR-000.B Retail space of 13 million
Data Security Description of policies and Discussion HC-DR-230a.1 See Patient and Customer square meters.
and Privacy practices to secure customers’ and analysis Privacy on page 28.
protected health information (PHI)
Number of prescriptions filled Quantitative HC-DR-000.C The U.S. Retail Pharmacy
records and other personally
segment filled 800.8 million
identifiable information (PII)
prescriptions (including
vaccinations) in fiscal 2023.
Adjusted to 30-day equivalents,
Patient Health First fill adherence rate Quantitative HC-DR-260b.1 Walgreens' first fill adherence
prescriptions filled were
Outcomes rate, the percentage of patients
1.2 billion in fiscal 2023.
with prescriptions who refilled
medications at Walgreens at
least one time after the initial Number of pharmacists Quantitative HC-DR-000.D WBA has over 32,000 registered
fill, was 64.6 percent in fiscal pharmacists between the U.S.
2023. The rate was calculated Retail Pharmacy, U.S. Healthcare,
by reviewing a random sample and International segments.
of 100,000 new-to-therapy patient
prescriptions from the following
drug classes - antidiabetics,
statins or antihypertensive
drugs - removing patients
on insulin from the sample2.
Description of policies Discussion HC-DR- See Patient safety on page 25.
and practices to prevent and analysis 260b.2
prescription dispensing errors
1SASB Index is included within the scope of Deloitte & Touche LLP review as detailed in the assurance report on pages 119-120.
2Includes U.S. Retail Pharmacy segment only
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 110
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
TCFD Response
We continue to integrate the results of the CSA with our Enterprise
Risk Management (ERM) team to formulate action plans.
MORE INFO GRI 3-3, 201-2 WBA’s highlights in fiscal 2023 include:
More climate performance WBA metrics and targets are presented in the table below. Additionally,
highlights can be found in the our principal businesses set targets as they comprise a large percentage
Energy and Emissions section At WBA, fulfilling our purpose to create more joyful lives through of our overall emissions. In fiscal 2023, Walgreens and Boots UK represent
of this ESG Report on page 72. better health means we must do our part to safeguard a livable planet. more than 96 percent of our Scope 1 and 2 carbon footprint and have
We recognize that climate change, environment, equity and human health targets within each:
are interconnected and are acutely aware of climate-related risks to our local
• WBA: Reduce our absolute Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions
communities as well as globally, which is why our ESG efforts are embedded
30 percent by the end of fiscal 2030 compared with our baseline
in our business strategy. We strive to improve global health in a way that is
year of fiscal 2019.
environmentally conscious and socially equitable.
• Boots UK and No7 Beauty Company owned brands: Reach The UK
WBA’s mitigation efforts to reduce its impact on the climate are focused
Plastics Pact 2025 targets: 30 percent reduction in plastic packaging
on two primary initiatives: 1) driving efficient operations and 2) proactively
compared with 2018, 100 percent of plastic packaging reusable or
engaging with stakeholders, including suppliers, with an emphasis on
recyclable by consumers and achieve 30 percent average recycled
reducing energy consumption, emissions and waste, while increasing
content across plastic packaging.
reuse and recycling options to help create a progressively circular economy.
WBA will act through our Company initiatives and through collaboration • Walgreens owned brand packaging 2030 targets: A 30 percent
reduction in plastics packaging compared with fiscal 2020, 100 percent
with industry, trade and other climate and environmental experts.
plastics packaging recyclable, reusable or compostable and 30 percent
The WBA ESG Committee approved the production of a response average recycled content across plastics packaging portfolio. These
aligned to the Task Force for Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) significant targets play a critical role in our overall emissions-reduction
requirements as increasing attention is focused on this disclosure. A growing strategy. More information on the actions taken on these targets can
number of governments and regulating bodies have adopted or proposed be found within this ESG Report within the Energy and Emissions
new climate regulations, citing TCFD as a leading framework. We are section on page 72.
committed to increasing transparency and continuously improving our
ESG-related disclosures as our stakeholders, including customers and
investors, are interested in our climate-related actions and goals.
WBA conducts a materiality assessment at least every three years
to understand our impacts, encourage insightful stakeholder dialogue,
inform our sustainability strategy and form the basis for our ESG reporting.
Our 2021 materiality assessment resulted in the topic of “energy use and
climate impacts” as having very high significance to our stakeholders. As
such, WBA reports on climate-related risks in our 2023 Annual Report
and discusses strategy, goals and metrics in our annual ESG Report. We
also complete the CDP Climate Change questionnaire on an annual basis,
demonstrating our commitment to transparently reporting our progress.
This third WBA response against the voluntary guidelines of the TCFD
continues our multiyear approach to reaching a fully developed TCFD
response. Our response aligns to our most recent CDP climate change
questionnaire, the emissions disclosures found in this ESG Report and
our fiscal 2022 climate scenario analysis ("CSA").
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 111
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Disclosure Focus Area Recommended Disclosures Response Disclosure Focus Area Recommended Disclosures Response
Governance Governance (cont.)
Disclose the organization’s a) Describe the board’s The board of directors oversees ESG through two global chief communications officer, the senior vice
governance around oversight of climate- committees: Nominating and Governance and Audit. president and global chief public affairs officer, the
climate-related risks related risks and senior vice president and chief administrative officer for
The Nominating and Governance Committee oversees the
and opportunities. opportunities. international, the executive vice president and global chief
Company’s ESG initiatives, policies and activities, including
legal officer, the senior vice president, global controller
sustainability and the environment. Such oversight includes
and chief accounting officer, and the senior vice president,
a review of the Company’s management of related risks, in
managing director and president for Boots.
consultation with the Audit Committee as appropriate. The
ESG Committee reports to the Nominating and Governance The ESG Committee meets regularly and, among other
Committee twice a year to review ESG strategy, including obligations, sets and oversees ESG strategy, goals,
global emissions activities, tracking against emissions programming and policy statements. This includes tracking
reduction targets, review of the annual ESG Report and progress and reporting on external ESG goals, and the
activities discussed within the annual ESG Report. goals set by principal businesses and cross-segment
organizations. The ESG Committee meets four times a year
Members of the Nominating and Governance Committee
to review the ESG program and reports to the Nominating
are all independent directors, and the chair of the committee
and Governance Committee at least twice a year.
is responsible for reporting to the full board of directors
regarding the activities of the Nominating and Governance Additionally, the senior vice president and global chief
Committee at appropriate times and as otherwise requested compliance and ethics officer, updates the ESG Committee
by the Chairman of the board. The Nominating and and oversees the ERM program, which is designed to
Governance Committee Charter is publicly available identify, monitor and assess significant short-, medium- and
on the WBA website. long-term risks. Key risks are presented to and reviewed by
the WBA Governance, Risk and Compliance Committee on
The Audit Committee also reviews the Company’s strategy
a bi-annual basis, and summaries are presented to the
for business continuity and disaster management, including
Board’s Audit Committee at least twice annually.
the establishment of emergency response teams across the
business. The Audit Committee Charter is publicly available
Strategy
on the WBA website. Additionally, the Audit Committee
has explicit oversight responsibility for Enterprise Risk
Management (ERM), including overseeing management’s Disclose the actual and Describe the climate-related Climate change presents a wide range of risks and
analysis and mitigation. The ERM encompasses the review potential impacts of risks and opportunities the opportunities to WBA over the short, medium and long term.
of emerging and existing risks relating to climate change climate-related risks and organization has identified The risks identified below may have a material impact on
and their impact on the business. The Audit Committee opportunities on the over the short, medium, and business operations and financial performance.
members are all independent directors and meet on organization’s business, long term.
Physical risks, such as extreme weather conditions, rising
ERM activity twice annually. strategy, and financial
sea levels or changes in precipitation patterns, may impact
planning where such
In addition to work conducted within the committees, operations and facilities around the world by causing
information is material.
the WBA chief operating officer, international, head physical damage to stores, distribution or fulfillment centers,
of the ESG Committee, provides ESG programming which may lead to loss or spoilage of inventory and business
updates to the full board of directors annually. interruptions. Extreme weather conditions and variability in
weather patterns may also result in supply chain disruptions
b) Describe management’s The WBA ESG Committee plays a leading role in providing and increased supplier costs that could negatively impact
role in assessing and oversight and governance. During fiscal 2023 the ESG the Company’s ability to procure goods or services required
managing climate-related Committee was chaired by the chief operating officer for for the operation of its business.
risks and opportunities. international and included the executive vice president and Transition risks associated with the shift to a low-carbon
global chief human resources officer, the vice president for economy may have an impact on WBA operations, supply
ESG and DEI for international, the senior vice president for chain and access to capital. Uncertainty in energy prices and
ESG and chief DEI officer, the president for Walgreens retail costs of fossil fuel-based goods (e.g., plastics) may increase
and chief customer officer, the senior vice president and costs throughout the supply chain in addition to WBA
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 112
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Disclosure Focus Area Recommended Disclosures Response Disclosure Focus Area Recommended Disclosures Response
Strategy (cont.) Strategy (cont.)
operations. WBA operations use natural gas, diesel The Company is increasingly offering products and services,
fuel and gasoline and electricity, all of which could face health and other, that align with a low-carbon economy, help
increased regulation as a result of climate change or other reduce its impact on the planet and help communities adapt
environmental concerns. There are also transition risks to climate change.
associated with increasing regulations on greenhouse gas
Climate-related risks and opportunities will continue
emissions and energy inputs which may increase costs
to inform WBA business strategy and financial planning.
associated with operations, compliance and merchandise.
The ERM team will evaluate climate-related risks to
There are risks and opportunities associated with determine materiality for incorporation into the Company’s
employees, customers and certain shareholders that broader risk management process. As the Company looks
may affect the WBA public perception with interested to develop its business strategy aligned with a low-carbon
stakeholders. Additionally, if WBA is not able to show future, it will use the results of its climate scenario analysis
progress on climate-related issues or is delayed or unable (CSA) to make informed decisions about which risks and
to meet goals on time (e.g., reducing GHG emissions), opportunities to prioritize.
it could affect the Company’s ability to retain existing
and attract new customers and employees. Beyond the
Describe the resilience of As part of the WBA commitment to building resilience into
risks described above, climate change may also present
the organization’s strategy, its business strategy, WBA conducted a CSA to identify,
opportunities for WBA to provide new health-related
taking into consideration prioritize and determine the potential impacts of climate-
services and respond to increased demand for low-carbon
different climate-related related risks and opportunities that could affect its business.
products. By improving access to healthcare, WBA has
scenarios, including a 2°C The Company took a cross-functional approach to the CSA
an opportunity to serve the needs of local communities
or lower scenario. by involving internal stakeholders from across the Company
experiencing severe weather conditions and other climate-
to identify ten risks and opportunities most relevant to WBA.
related impacts. Worsening climate change conditions
Each identified risk and opportunity was analyzed under
may increase the prevalence and severity of human health
two climate scenarios: a high-emissions scenario and a
impacts (e.g., increased heat stress, new pathogens or
low-carbon economy scenario. Both scenarios were based
vector-borne diseases), and WBA may be able to invest
on climate projections from the Intergovernmental Panel on
in beneficial products and services such as telehealth,
Climate Change (IPCC). The low-emissions scenario, also
pharmacy services, retail product offerings and mobile
known as Representative Concentration Pathway (RCP)
vaccination clinics to meet the needs of its customers.
2.6, is based on keeping global warming under 2 degrees
WBA is continually evaluating relevant climate risks and
Celsius and is modeled under the assumption that the world
opportunities and seeks to mitigate the impacts of these
takes a sharp pivot toward climate action, including rapid
risks while also building capacity to realize opportunities.
decarbonization. The high-emissions scenario is based
on RCP 8.5, which would result in 4 to 5 degrees Celsius
Describe the impact Climate-related risks and opportunities have influenced of warming by the end of the century. This scenario presents
of climate-related risks and been incorporated into company-wide objectives, the upper bounds of impacts from global warming resulting
and opportunities on the strategies and goals. The Company is focused on mitigating from inaction on decarbonization and climate-change
organization’s businesses, the impacts of climate change by reducing GHG emissions mitigation.
strategy, and financial and reducing operating costs.
The results of this CSA show that physical risks will have
planning.
The Company is taking steps to improve the sustainability a larger impact on WBA’s business in the high emissions
of WBA operations by prioritizing energy conservation and scenario. In a high emissions scenario, extreme weather
efficiency at retail and distribution locations. Additionally, conditions and other climate disasters would have a more
the Company is building its resilience to climate risks while significant impact on WBA through store closures, lost
generating value for customers and ensuring business sales, inventory spoilage and repair costs. Transition risks
continuity in the face of weather and/or climate change are more varied, however, with many of these risks having
impacts. WBA has an opportunity to play a supportive role a larger impact on WBA in the near term (i.e., by 2030) in
as communities transition within the changing climate. a low- emissions scenario. These impacts are due to the
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 113
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Disclosure Focus Area Recommended Disclosures Response Disclosure Focus Area Recommended Disclosures Response
Strategy (cont.) Risk Management (cont.)
added burden that would be required to address the rapid process, which includes shifts in the supply and
shift to a low-carbon economy. Climate-related opportunities demand for certain commodities, products and services.
are generally more pronounced in the high emissions Climate-related risks and opportunities are increasingly
scenario, as larger impacts from climate change will lead to considered in this process. Chronic physical risks such as
increased opportunities for WBA to provide solutions that temperature changes due to climate change are included
improve healthcare access and quality of services. in the Company’s assessments regarding measuring and
managing energy use and associated GHG emissions.
WBA is beginning to implement changes based on the
results of the CSA and will continue to evolve based on
results. The WBA ERM team will use the learnings from Describe the organization’s WBA manages climate-related risk with a company view
this analysis to determine if adjustments are needed in its processes for managing and impact on the broader environment. WBA manages
decision-making and risk-management processes, and climate-related risks. these risks through its ERM program, targets managed by
will integrate the output of the CSA into its consideration the ESG Committee and in setting company-wide practices
of financial material risk, financial planning and business and procedures, each with efforts to continually improve
strategy development. to reduce its impact.
The ERM program sets the framework for identifying,
Risk Management assessing and managing climate-related risks. The ERM
program is specifically designed and tailored to identify,
Disclose how the Describe the organization’s For WBA, climate-related risks are considered within the risk monitor and assess significant short-, medium- and long-
organization identifies, processes for identifying identification, assessment and management processes. The term risks to the Company and to help ensure that WBA
assesses and manages and assessing climate- ERM and Compliance functions are primarily responsible is taking appropriate steps to mitigate them. Risks are
climate-related risks. related risks. for monitoring the overall risk profile, which includes both specifically monitored through the ERM and Compliance
climate-related physical and transition risks. The ERM functions. Risks are identified and assessed for all
program tracks current and emerging risks and recommends businesses and global functions across WBA. Within this
changes to the Company’s key risk summary. At the process, each business is responsible for preparing and
company level, risk assessments encompass all strategic, reviewing potential risks bi-annually.
operational, commercial, regulatory, reputational, legal and The ERM program tracks current and emerging risks and
financial risks that could have an adverse impact on WBA. provides recommendations for changes to the Company’s
Climate-related risks can impact all of these risk types, and key risk summary. Summaries of key and emerging risks
therefore have to be considered. Acute physical risks, such are presented to the Audit Committee. Updates on risk
as flooding, have operational, commercial and financial mitigation are provided to the Audit Committee through the
implications. WBA is committed to evaluating and monitoring ERM program or management presentations as appropriate.
acute physical risks to help ensure it is properly prepared
In addition to ERM, the ESG Committee maintains
and can help mitigate. Risks are identified and assessed
environment-related objectives that are tracked, monitored
for all businesses and global functions. Each business is
and cascaded to each business to align with local objectives
responsible for preparing and reviewing potential risks
and initiatives. WBA completes the CDP climate change
bi-annually.
questionnaire annually and reports progress against its
WBA considers potential risks, including climate-related Healthy Planet commitments in its annual ESG Report to hold
risks, to the Company and evaluates them based on the itself accountable and communicate goals and progress.
following criteria: (i) the importance of the issue to and
At WBA, focus is given to preparedness and training. WBA
potential impact on the Company; (ii) the importance of the
maintains a Business Continuity Management program
issue to and potential impact on its stakeholders; and (iii)
and utilizes nationwide resources, support systems and
the time frame in which WBA envisions the issue
infrastructure to respond quickly, compassionately and
becoming relevant.
effectively during natural disasters, emergencies and
Transitional market-related risks are regularly assessed pandemics. The Company has plans and protocols in place
and prioritized as part of the Company's risk assessment to effectively support and provide necessary services to
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 114
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Disclosure Focus Area Recommended Disclosures Response Disclosure Focus Area Recommended Disclosures Response
Risk Management (cont.) Metrics and Targets (cont.)
minimize disruptions and keep stores open and operating, Disclose Scope 1, WBA annually quantifies Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions
or provide other solutions, such as mobile location, to Scope 2, and, if appropriate, through two reporting channels: the Energy and Emissions
meet patients’ and customers’ needs. The Company also Scope 3 greenhouse gas section of its ESG Report, including three years of data,
implements processes to minimize supply chain disruption. (GHG) emissions, and and its CDP climate change questionnaire. WBA Scope
WBA utilizes its Security Operations Center at Walgreens the related risks. 1 and location-based Scope 2 emissions are calculated
in the U.S. to identify areas that will be drastically impacted using commonly accepted emission factors. Scope 3
by natural disasters and deploy needed resources, like emissions were reported for two categories in accordance
generators and mobile pharmacies, to the areas that with the GHG Protocol's Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3)
need them most. Standard: Business travel and the portion of downstream
transportation and distribution (cars, aircraft, trains or by sea)
In broader company activities, WBA endeavors to ensure
for operations outsourced to third parties where deliveries
the appropriate use of resources and materials, minimize
are made exclusively for WBA businesses.
waste and encourage reuse and recycling, ensure the safe
handling and disposal of products, maintain environmental Risks associated with Scope 3 emissions include
management systems and communicate its commitment the estimations used in emission factors and the
to the environment across the entire Company. Further, completeness of data.
WBA strives to ensure that the team members, customers,
patients and communities it serves are safe during and Describe the targets used WBA set a target to reduce its absolute Scope 1 and 2
after a crisis while maintaining a continuity of service. by the organization to emissions by 30 percent from a 2019 baseline by the end
manage climate-related of fiscal 2030. This target is aligned with the Company’s
risks and opportunities and approach to addressing the impact of climate-related risks
performance against targets. and opportunities on operations. WBA plans to achieve
this target primarily through a continued focus on energy
Describe how processes for WBA integrates the process for identifying, assessing efficiency improvements at Walgreens and Boots UK retail
identifying, assessing, and and managing climate-related risks into the overall risk locations. As of fiscal 2023, WBA has reduced emissions
managing climate-related management process specifically through the ERM and by 25% percent from the 2019 baseline, which means the
risks are integrated into the Compliance functions which are primarily responsible for Company is over halfway to achieving its 2030 target. WBA
organization’s overall risk monitoring the overall risk profile. plans to continue making progress toward this target and
management. reducing its exposure to climate-related risks by improving
At the company level, risk assessments encompass all
energy efficiency at retail locations and using environmental
strategic, operational, commercial, regulatory, reputational,
management systems (EMS) in retail locations to monitor
legal and financial risks that could have an adverse impact
energy performance and provide insight into climate-
on WBA. WBA is implementing learnings from the CSA
stressed locations.
results as part of its ongoing efforts to further integrate
climate-risk management and mitigation within its ERM
and business continuity and disaster recovery policies.
Metrics and Targets
Disclose the metrics and Disclose the metrics used WBA regularly reports GHG emissions and energy
targets used to assess by the organization to consumption across its operations and supply chain,
and manage relevant assess climate-related risks as well as the source associated with each emissions
climate-related risks and and opportunities in line category. Further, the Company tracks solid waste
opportunities where such with its strategy and risk generation and disposal methods across all its businesses.
information is material. management process. See the list of climate-focused initiatives and relevant
data on page 74 of this ESG Report for more information.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 115
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
United Nations
Global Compact Index
The United Nation’s Global Compact (UNGC) is a voluntary initiative based on CEO commitments to
implement universal sustainability principles and to take steps to support UN goals. Walgreens Boots
Alliance has been a signatory member of the UNGC since 2020 and supports the initiative’s ten principles
on human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. WBA’s Letter of Commitment can be found here.
WBA’s Communication on Progress during 2022 qualified for the Global Compact Advanced level.
UNGC Principles Disclosure UNGC Principles Disclosure
HUMAN RIGHTS ENVIRONMENT
Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the • Sustainable Marketplace, pages 84-96 Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary • Healthy Planet, pages 70-82
protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and approach to environmental challenges;
• Healthy and Inclusive Workplace, pages 56-69 • WBA CDP Response Fiscal 2023, which covers 2022
• WBA Code of Conduct and Business Ethics • WBA Supplier Code of Conduct
Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater
• Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement environmental responsibility; and • WBA ESG Policy Statements
• WBA Human Rights Policy Statement
Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit • WBA Supplier Code of Conduct Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion
in human rights abuses. of environmentally friendly technologies.
ANTI-CORRUPTION
Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption • WBA Code of Conduct and Business Ethics
LABOR
in all its forms, including extortion and bribery.
• Responsible Sourcing, pages 88-90
Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom • Sustainable Marketplace, pages 84-96 • WBA Supplier Code of Conduct
of association and the effective recognition of the right
• Healthy and Inclusive Workplace, pages 56-69 • WBA ESG Policy Statements
to collective bargaining;
• WBA Code of Conduct and Business Ethics
• Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement
Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced
and compulsory labour; • WBA Human Rights Policy Statement
• WBA Supplier Code of Conduct
Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and • WBA ESG Policy Statements
Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination
in respect of employment and occupation.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 116
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Management Assertion Table
Specified Disclosures presented in accordance with the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (the “GRI Standards”):
GRI Standard and Specified Disclosure (for the year ended August 31, 2023) ESG Report reference
Management of Walgreens Boots Alliance (WBA) is responsible for the completeness, accuracy and validity (1) G RI 1-3.5: Access to Affordable Disclosure GRI 3-3: Management of material Page 100
and Quality Healthcare topics and the following WBA criteria:
of the Specified Disclosures referenced below for the period or date indicated below. Management is also
Total number of new in-store health service
responsible for the collection, quantification and presentation of the information included in the 2023 ESG
locations and total number of collaborations
Report and for the selection of the criteria, which management believes provides an objective basis for
with healthcare service providers covered on
measuring and reporting on the Specified Disclosures. Management of Walgreens Boots Alliance asserts that
the Walgreens app through Walgreens Find
the sustainability disclosures referenced below (the WBA specified disclosures, Global Reporting Initiative Care that increase access to healthcare.
(GRI) specified disclosures, and the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) specified disclosures
collectively the “Specified Disclosures”) for the period or date indicated below, are presented in accordance (2) G RI 416-1: Safety of Products Disclosure GRI 416-1: Assessment of the Pages 25-26
with the criteria set forth below. and Services health and safety impacts of product and
service categories from the GRI Standards
416: Customer Health and Safety 2016.
(3) G RI 414-1 and GRI 414-2: Responsible Disclosure GRI 414-1: New suppliers that were Pages 88-89
Specified Disclosures presented in accordance with WBA ESG Basis of Presentation (the “WBA Criteria”) and Ethical Supply Chains screened using social criteria and GRI 414-2:
as presented on pages 121-127. Negative social impacts in the supply chain
and actions taken from the GRI Standards 414:
Specified Disclosure WBA Criteria ESG Report reference
Supplier Social Assessment 2016.
(for the year ended August 31, 2023)
(1) Total Company CO e emissions, by source Total emissions by source (energy, Page 74 (4) G RI 401-2 and GRI 403-8: Employee Disclosure GRI 401-2: Benefits provided to Pages 59-69
2 product delivery and business travel) Health, Safety, and Well-Being full-time employees that are not provided to
temporary or part-time employees from the
GRI Standards 416: Customer Health and
(2) CO e emissions from energy, by type Total emissions from energy by type: Page 74 Safety 2016
2
electricity (direct and indirect), gas (indirect),
and
and other (combined heat and power, oil
and liquefied petroleum gas)
Disclosure GRI 403-8: Workers covered Pages 105-106
by an occupational health and safety
Total emissions from business travel,
management system from the GRI Standards
by type: road, air and rail
403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018.
(3) S cope 1 CO e emissions except for the Total COe emissions from scope 1 except Page 75
2 2 (5) GRI 418-1: Data Privacy and Security Disclosure GRI 418-1: Substantiated Pages 28, 108
portion sold to third parties or to the grid for the heat and electricity produced by our
complaints concerning breaches of customer
on-site plant in Beeston, Nottingham, UK,
privacy and losses of customer data from the
and sold to third parties or to the grid
GRI Standards 418: Customer Privacy 2016.
(6) GRI 306-3: Waste Management Disclosure GRI 306-3: Waste generated Page 79
(4) CO e emissions from business travel, Total COe emissions from business travel Page 74 from the GRI Standards 306: Waste 2020.
2 2
per 1,000 employees, by division and per 1,000 employees
for the Company (7) GRI 302-1: Energy Consumption Disclosure GRI 302-1: Energy consumption GHG Statement;
within the organization from the GRI Standards page 2
302: Energy 2016.
(5) Waste by method of disposal Total Waste Directed to Disposal: Page 79
landfill and incineration GRI Standard and Specified Disclosure (for the year ended December 31, 2022)
Total Waste Diverted from Disposal: (8) GRI 306-3: Plastics and Packaging Disclosure GRI 306-3: Waste generated from Page 95
recycled and reuse the GRI Standards 306: Waste 2020.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 117
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Specified Disclosures presented in accordance with the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (the “GRI Standards”):
GRI Standard and Specified Disclosure (as of August 31, 2023) ESG Report reference
(9) GRI 405-1: Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Disclosure GRI 405-1: Diversity of governance Pages 22, 66
bodies and employees from the GRI Standards
405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016.
Specified Disclosures presented in accordance with Sustainability Accounting Services Standards Board (“SASB”)
Drug Retailers Sustainability Accounting Standards (the “SASB Standards”):
Specified Disclosure SASB Standard ESG Report reference
Accounting Metrics – Energy Management in Retail (for the year ended August 31, 2023)
(1) H C-DR-130a.1 HC-DR-130a.1: Page 110
(1) Total amount of energy consumed
in Gigajoules (GJ)
(2) P ercentage (%) grid electricity
of total energy consumed
(3) P ercentage (%) of renewable electricity
of total energy consumed
Accounting Metrics – Data Security & Privacy (as of August 31, 2023)
(2) HC-DR-230a.1 HC-DR-230a.1: Description of policies and Page 28
practices to secure customers’ protected
health information (PHI) records and other
personally identifiable information (PII)
Accounting Metrics – Patient Health Outcomes (as of August 31, 2023)
(3) HC-DR-260b.2 HC-DR-260b.2: Description of policies Page 110
and practices to prevent prescription
dispensing errors
Activity Metrics (as of August 31, 2023)
(4) SASB HC-DR-000.A SASB HC-DR-000.A: Number of pharmacy Page 110
locations
(5) SASB HC-DR-000.B SASB HC-DR-000.B: Total area of retail space Page 110
(6) SASB HC-DR-000.C SASB HC-DR-000.C: Number of prescriptions Page 110
filled
(7) SASB HC-DR-000.D SASB HC-DR-000.D: Number of pharmacists Page 110
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 118
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Assurance Report
obtained had an examination been performed. We believe that the review
evidence obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a reasonable
basis for our conclusion.
GRI 2-5
We are required to be independent and to meet our other ethical
requirements in accordance with relevant ethical requirements in accordance
with the AICPA Code of Professional Conduct.
We applied the Statements on Quality Control Standards established by the
AICPA and, accordingly, maintain a comprehensive system of quality control.
The procedures we performed were based on our professional judgment.
INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANT’S REPORT
In performing our review, we performed analytical procedures, inquiries,
ESG Committee of Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc. and other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.
Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc. For a selection of the specified information outlined within Appendix A, we
Deerfield, IL 60015 performed tests of mathematical accuracy of computations, compared the
disclosures to underlying records, or observed the data collection process.
We have reviewed management of Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc.’s (the
“Company” or “WBA”) assertion that the sustainability disclosures identified The preparation of the Specified Disclosures in the WBA 2023 ESG Report
in Appendix A and referenced in the Management Assertion Table of the requires management to interpret the criteria, make determinations as to the
accompanying WBA 2023 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report (the relevancy of information to be included, and make estimates and assumptions
“WBA 2023 ESG Report”) (the WBA specified disclosures, Global Reporting that affect reported information. Measurement of certain amounts, disclosures,
Initiative (“GRI”) specified disclosures, and the Sustainability Accounting and metrics may include estimates and assumptions that are subject to
Standards Board (“SASB”) specified disclosures, collectively, the “Specified substantial inherent measurement uncertainty including, for example, the
Disclosures”) for the period or date indicated in Appendix A, are presented accuracy and precision of conversion factors or estimation methodologies
in accordance with the criteria set forth in Appendix A and the Management used by management. Obtaining sufficient appropriate review evidence
Assertion section of the accompanying WBA 2023 ESG Report. to support our conclusion does not reduce the inherent uncertainty in the
amounts. The selection by management of a different, but acceptable
The Company’s management is responsible for its assertion. Our responsibility measurement method, input data, or model assumptions, or a different point
is to express a conclusion on management’s assertion based on our review. value within the range of reasonable values produced by the model, may have
resulted in materially different amounts, disclosures, or metrics being reported.
Our review was conducted in accordance with attestation standards
established by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) Information outside of the Specified Disclosures referenced in Appendix
in AT-C Section 105, Concepts Common to All Attestation Engagements, and A and the Management Assertion section of the WBA 2023 ESG Report,
AT-C Section 210, Review Engagements. Those standards require that we including linked information, was not subject to our review, including the
plan and perform the review to obtain limited assurance about whether any alignment to United Nations (“UN”) Sustainable Development Goals and the
material modifications should be made to management’s assertion in order Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (“TCFD”) Disclosure Index
for it to be fairly stated. The procedures performed in a review vary in nature and, accordingly, we do not express a conclusion or any form of assurance on
and timing from and are substantially less in extent than, an examination, such information. Further, any information relating to periods prior to the year
the objective of which is to obtain reasonable assurance about whether ended August 31, 2023, and December 31, 2022, specifically for GRI 306-3:
management’s assertion is fairly stated, in all material respects, in order to Plastics and Packaging, or information relating to forward looking statements,
express an opinion. Accordingly, we do not express such an opinion. Because targets, goals, and progress against goals was not subject to our review
of the limited nature of the engagement, the level of assurance obtained and, accordingly we do not express a conclusion or any form of assurance
in a review is substantially lower than the assurance that would have been on such information.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 119
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Based on our review, we are not aware of any material modifications
that should be made to management of the Company’s assertion that
the Specified Disclosures referenced in Appendix A and the Management
Assertion section of the accompanying WBA 2023 ESG Report for the
period or date indicated therein, are presented in accordance with the
criteria set forth in Appendix A and the Management Assertion section
of the accompanying WBA 2023 ESG Report.
January 24, 2024
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 120
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Basis of Presentation
Business acquisitions1 - Businesses acquired during the reporting year
are excluded from the current year ESG reporting scope. The complete
dataset is reported once data for a full year are available;
FISCAL 2023 ESG DATA Divestments - Businesses that are no longer subsidiaries of the Company
at the fiscal year end due to divestment in the reporting year are excluded
PART I: BASIS OF PRESENTATION from current year ESG reporting scope;
Organization Equity method investments - Equity method investments are excluded
from the Company’s ESG reporting scope;
Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc., a Delaware corporation (“Walgreens Boots
Alliance” or the “Company”), is an integrated healthcare, pharmacy and retail Franchise operations – Franchise operations run by third parties where
leader serving millions of customers and patients every day, with a 170-year a WBA business is the franchisor are excluded from the Company’s
heritage of caring for communities. Our principal executive offices are located external ESG reporting scope.;
at 108 Wilmot Road, Deerfield, Illinois 60015. Our common stock trades
on the Nasdaq Stock Market under the symbol “WBA”. Outsourced activities – Outsourced activities are excluded from the ESG
reporting scope, except where the outsourcer’s activities are dedicated to
Walgreens Boots Alliance is one of the largest retail pharmacy, health the Company’s business and where the associated impacts may be significant
and daily living destinations across the United States (“U.S.”) and Europe with to our ESG performance. For example, third-party product deliveries made
approximately 13,000 locations. Walgreens Boots Alliance has a presence in exclusively for WBA. The Company’s Code of Conduct and Business Ethics
9 countries and employs more than 331,000 people. In addition, Walgreens
set out the principles for dealing with, and the requirements for, suppliers.
Boots Alliance is one of the world’s largest purchasers of prescription drugs
and many other health and well-being products. Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions have been reported for those entities
for which the Company has financial control, as defined by the GHG Protocol.
The Company’s operations are conducted through three reportable
GHG emissions pertaining to the organizational and operational boundaries
segments: U.S. Retail Pharmacy, International, and U.S. Healthcare.
have been reported for global operations for owned, managed and leased
locations including retail stores, specialty pharmacies, retail distribution
centers, micro-fulfillment centers, prescription mail service facilities,
Scope pharmaceutical distribution centers, healthcare clinics and principal
office facilities.
This report provides detailed information about the Company’s Environmental,
Social and Governance (“ESG”) initiatives and related key performance On June 1, 2021 the Company completed the sale of the majority
indicators. In the creation of this document, the Company used multiple of the Company's Alliance Healthcare business as well as a portion of the
internationally recognized standard ESG frameworks and other non-standard Company’s retail pharmacy international businesses in Europe (“discontinued
reporting guidance from industry frameworks. The Company also developed operation”) to Cencora, Inc. Unless otherwise specified, disclosures in this
its own standard definitions for reporting its performance data and KPIs. See report reflect continuing operations only.
Use of multiple frameworks section below for further information.
This ESG Report has been prepared based on a fiscal reporting year that
is the same as the Company’s financial reporting period September 1, 2022
to August 31, 2023.
The Company’s external financial performance report includes all subsidiaries 1 On January 3, 2023, VillageMD, through its parent company completed the acquisition
in which the Company holds a controlling interest. The main differences of WP CityMD TopCo ("Summit Health-CityMD"). In line with the Company's policy of excluding
Community, Workplace, and Marketplace reporting for businesses acquired in the first fiscal
between the Company’s external financial performance report and this
year following the year of acquisition, Summit Health-CityMD's data has not been included
ESG report, are as follows: in the reported results. The ESG Report contains Workplace data only for this entity.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 121
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Use of multiple frameworks Reporting of metrics and data
WBA has a company-wide approach to recording, measuring and reporting
The Company’s ESG report covers material topics identified through
ESG performance, including a set of reporting criteria and a set of ESG
a materiality assessment conducted in fiscal 2021. The Company follows
measures and performance indicators. WBA utilizes documented definitions
the GRI definition of materiality, which is different to the definition used for
and procedures related to ESG data and metrics to ensure completeness
filings with the SEC. Issues deemed material for purposes of this report
and consistency. These procedures provide for the use of estimation and
may not be considered material for SEC reporting purposes.
extrapolation techniques in instances in which data is not practicable
to source. The Company reviews definitions and procedures on an
The Company has used both standard and non-standard frameworks
annual basis.
in its reporting process.
ESG performance data is collected on an annual basis. All submissions
Standard frameworks by individual businesses are prepared by local finance teams and ESG
champions and are reviewed by senior finance leaders.
The Company utilizes the following frameworks for metrics other than
emissions reporting:
Every effort is made to ensure that we report accurate data, and our
• Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) processes are designed to support this. In cases where we become aware
of updates to data from previous years, we consider providing updated data
• Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB), maintained
in subsequent reports if the changes result in a discrepancy that is material.
by the International Sustainability; Standards Board (ISSB);
In these cases, we provide details in footnotes to our data tables.
• UN Global Compact commitments; and
• Taskforce for Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD).
For emissions reporting, specifically Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions, the
information has been prepared in accordance with the World Resources
Institute/World Business Council for Sustainable Development Greenhouse
Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, Revised
Edition (the GHG Protocol). As described in the GHG Protocol: Corporate
Standard, GHG emissions reported under Scope 3 GHG emissions are
optional for reporting. The Company is reporting on two of the fifteen Scope
3 categories: Business travel and the portion of downstream transportation
and distribution. Collectively, the Corporate Accounting and Reporting
Standard, Revised Edition and Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3), Accounting
and Reporting Standard are referred to as the GHG Protocol in this document.
Non-standard frameworks
For select metrics and KPIs, WBA developed its own standard definitions
for reporting its performance data and KPIs (Refer Part II).
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 122
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
PART II - DEFINITIONS OF WBA ESG PERFORMANCE METRICS
WBA reports ESG performance data in total and for certain metrics
by segment, consistent with its financial reporting. The Company captures,
analyzes and reports data at a detailed level to provide a clear understanding
of contributing factors to ESG performance. WBA’s framework of ESG
priorities covers the following key areas:
Healthy Contributions are analyzed as follows:
Communities • Cash (charitable and other donations) and non-cash (employee time, in-kind donations and management costs)
• Focus of the organizations contributed to: health, social welfare, education, other (for example, relating to arts, culture, emergency relief, economic development)
• Employee time (volunteer hours): Please note employee time relates to volunteering hours during paid working time only
Healthy Planet The three significant sources of COe emissions are energy, product delivery and business travel. Emissions are analyzed as follows:
2
• Total emissions by source (energy, product delivery and business travel)
• Scope (Scopes 1, 2 and 3)
• Emissions from energy by type: electricity (direct and indirect), gas (indirect), and other (combined heat and power, oil and liquefied petroleum gas)
• Emissions from business travel, by type: road, air and rail
• In addition to the above analysis, the Company also discloses the metric, COe emissions from business travel per 1,000 employees.
2
Waste is analyzed as follows:
• By method of disposal: landfill, incinerated, reused (U.S. Retail Pharmacy only), and recycled (includes materials recovered via incineration with heat recovery)
• By content: hazardous and non-hazardous
Healthy and • Employee Turnover
Inclusive • Diversity of employees (including age group, gender, and leadership level for WBA; race and ethnicity for U.S. Retail Pharmacy and U.S.
Workplace
• Healthcare; and gender and race and ethnicity for U.S. pharmacists)
• Employee category (manager, non-manager and Senior Director and above)
• Employment Type (permanent, temporary, full-time, part time)
• Percentage of employees under a collective bargaining agreement
Sustainable • Palm Oil
Marketplace • Packaging Materials in owned brand products
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 123
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
1. HEALTHY COMMUNITIES Organizations supported by the Company’s contributions
• Health projects include donations made to not-for-profit hospitals,
Cash donations
health organizations and other health-related activities.
• Charitable cash donation: Cash donated directly by the Company
• Social welfare projects include donations made to organizations
in support of community projects to organizations officially created or
focused on issues such as homelessness, legal support, domestic
legally registered for charitable purposes. Donations from employees,
violence, the elderly and people with disabilities.
customers and suppliers are not included.
• Education projects include donations made to schools, colleges,
• Other cash donation: Cash donated directly by the Company
universities or other projects or organizations that promote education,
in support of community projects to organizations other than
training or development programs.
those officially created or legally registered for charitable purposes.
Donations from employees, customers and suppliers are not included. • Other projects include donations made to organizations or activities
not covered by categories above, such as the arts, culture, emergency
Non-cash donations relief and economic development.
• Employee time: Defined as the value of time employees have
Access to Affordable and Quality Healthcare
volunteered to spend on community projects and social welfare
programs during paid working time. Employee time is valued at an • Number of new in-store health service locations that increase access
average staff salary rate and includes employer’s employment taxes,
• Number of collaborations with healthcare service providers covered
healthcare, social security and Medicare contributions, pension
on the Walgreens app through Walgreens Find Care
contributions and employer matching 401K contributions.
• In-kind donations: These are products, equipment, the use of premises Consumer Health Education and Marketing
or other non-cash items donated to community programs. They include
• Number of consumers who participate in health education initiatives
product donations, generally valued at their cost price, gift vouchers and
through clicks on healthcare focused topics on Walgreens.com
the provision of space at vacant properties to charitable organizations.
Also captured is advertising space in Company magazines (e.g. Boots
Opioid Abuse Prevention
Health & Beauty magazine) that benefits both the charity and the
business. Fifty percent of the advertising costs are included, in line with • Number of Naloxone kits dispensed
the Business for Societal Impact (B4SI) global standard.
• Total number of take home safe medication disposal kits sent
• Management costs: These are defined as the value of costs from distribution centers to stores for customer distribution
incurred planning and managing community projects and social welfare
programs and consist of direct expenditure as well as an allocation
of relevant overhead and expenses. 2. HEALTHY PLANET
Geographic Areas impacted by the Company’s donations 2.1 Waste
• Local: A local organization is defined as an organization whose work Waste reporting is typically reliant on data provided by waste contractors
does not meet the definition of national or international organization. within a country. Normally, waste data measurement is based on metric
tonnage as provided by third-party contractors. For sites where the third
• National: A national organization is defined as an organization whose
party’s contract is based on an agreed standard metric tonnage per volume
work is focusing on the entire country. For US purposes the entire
collected, the rate applicable for the year is used as the basis of calculation.
country is defined as the sizeable majority (more than 75 percent)
For sites where contractor data is unavailable (for example, stores within
of the states.
shopping centers where the Company’s business does not manage the
• International: An international organization is defined as an waste contract), estimates are used based on actual data from a store
organization whose work is focusing on more than one country. or warehouse of an equivalent size.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 124
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
• Total waste generated is defined as sum of Hazardous and 2.2.1 Conversion factors
Non-Hazardous waste sent to Landfill, Incineration with and without
• For standard tariff electricity, country specific CO e conversion factors
Heat Recovery, Reuse (for the U.S. Retail Pharmacy segment only), 2
published by the International Energy Agency (IEA) are used, apart
and Recycled.
from WBA’s largest territories, the U.S. and the UK. U.S. data are
• Waste sent to landfill is defined as waste produced by WBA operations
converted using Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Emissions &
and sent to landfill for disposal.
General Resource Integrated Database (eGRID) specific CO e factors
2
• Waste sent to incineration is defined as waste produced by WBA that take into consideration where the electricity was produced within
operations and sent to incineration, without heat recovery, for disposal. the country. UK data are converted using the UK Department for
Environment, Food & Rural Affairs (DEFRA) CO e factors.
• Materials recovered via incineration are defined as waste produced by 2
WBA operations and sent to incineration via a contractor where energy • For all other metrics, conversion factors are applied based on business
recovered from the process is used to generate electricity or heat. location. The U.S. Retail Pharmacy follows the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency (EPA) published factors. The International Segment
• Materials recycled are defined as waste produced by WBA operations
follows DEFRA published factors. Note: where CO e factors are not
and sent off-site for recycling. 2
available, CO factors are applied as a proxy.
2
• Reuse is defined as products or components of products that
have become waste are prepared to be put to use for the same • Conversion factors are updated annually to reflect the factors
purpose for which they were conceived published by the IAE, EPA and DEFRA that are in effect as of 31
August of the reporting year.
• Hazardous waste as defined by local applicable legislation at the
point of generation
• Non-hazardous waste as defined by local applicable legislation 2.2.2 Energy
at the point of generation
• Electricity - The calculation of CO e from electricity is based on
2
Key performance indicators - waste the following factors:
1. Hazardous waste as % of total waste • Standard tariff - Consumption data are converted using the
2. Waste recycled as % of total waste generated relevant conversion factors as described above. Where data
on electricity consumed are not available, an estimate is made
3. Total waste generated per $ sales (tonnes per $million sales)
based on annual expenditure on electricity. Estimates are
based on stores or properties of an equivalent size.
2.2 Carbon emissions
• Green tariff - This is country specific and entered individually
Total CO e emitted (in metric tonnes) is calculated using activity data by the business. Generally, in cases where the standard tariff is
2
(e.g. amount of fuel used) and applying relevant conversion factors following already subsidized, this is accounted for using the grid average
the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol recommendation and using the conversion factor.
most accurate calculation approach available. To reach the most accurate
• Onsite Combined Heat and Power (“CHP”) plant - This is specific
emissions estimations, the latest available specific locally sourced factors
to the Company’s onsite energy plant in Beeston, Nottingham,
are applied, where reasonable.
UK and based on a calculation defined by the GHG Protocol that
uses actual electricity and heat output figures.
Key performance indicators - emissions
1. Electricity - green tariff as % of total used (based on kWh) • Gas and other - Consumption data are converted using the
relevant conversion factors as described above. Where data
2. CO emissions from business travel, per 1,000 employees
2 on actual consumption (in mWh) are unavailable, an estimate
3. CO tonnes from product delivery per $million sales is made based on annual expenditure.
2
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 125
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
2.2.3 Outbound product delivery • Scope 1: Direct GHG emissions occurring from sources that are
owned or controlled by the Company are emissions from self-
This covers the resulting CO e emissions from delivery of products to
2 generated electricity and self-generated heat or steam; and, from
stores and to customers. This includes deliveries by own-fleet vehicles
combustion of natural gas and oils in owned or controlled boilers and
and for operations outsourced to third parties where deliveries are made
furnaces, owned vehicles used for product delivery and owned cars
exclusively for WBA businesses and backhaul deliveries for other companies.
or aircraft used for business travel. Fugitive emissions resulting from
This excludes deliveries from third-party suppliers to Company warehouses,
the use of refrigeration and air conditioning equipment are not
cross-dock centers or direct to stores. The amount of CO e emitted is
2 included as the Company evaluates their effects on its operations.
calculated using activity data and applying the relevant conversion factors
as described above. • Scope 2: Indirect GHG emissions are emissions from the generation of
purchased electricity, purchased heat or purchased steam consumed.
• Own-fleet vehicles (including leased vehicles) - kilometers traveled:
• Scope 3: Indirect GHG emissions that are a consequence of the
• Drivers with fuel cards - fuel consumed captured by third-party
activities of the Company but occur from sources not owned or
fuel billing
controlled by the Company. WBA currently reports on business travel
• Drivers without fuel cards - distance captured and the portion of downstream transportation and distribution, which
are the most relevant sources of emissions. These are emissions from
• Third-party vehicles - where the delivery is made exclusively for a WBA
third-party product delivery and business travel undertaken by vehicles
business, captured by either third-party kilometer data or third-party
(cars, aircraft or trains) not owned by the Company.
liters of fuel used.
2.2.4 Business travel
3. HEALTHY AND INCLUSIVE WORKPLACE
The amount of CO e emitted from travel undertaken by employees for work
2
or business purposes is calculated using activity data and converted to Employee: An employee is a person employed by WBA on a full-
emissions applying relevant conversion factors as described in section 2.2.1. or part-time basis, for an indefinite or fixed term.
• Road travel – car travel undertaken by employees for business purposes Employee Turnover
• Employees with fuel cards - captured by third-party fuel billing • Voluntary Turnover: Employees who have left the Company voluntarily
(not transfers) as a percent of the average active and leave headcount
• Employees without fuel cards - captured by Company expense
of employees for the reporting period. The reporting period is based
systems, using kilometers travelled
on the prior 12 months. Interns, as identified by job title, are excluded
• Air travel – calculated using third-party (e.g. travel service provider) from turnover.
data on kilometers travelled other than for non-commercial flights,
• Involuntary Turnover: Employees who have left the Company (not
which are calculated using third-party data on fuel consumed
transfers) as a percent of the average, active and leave headcount of
• Long haul – number of passenger kilometers traveled for long employees for the reporting period. The reporting period is the same as
haul flights (over 3,700 kilometers) above. Some reasons that are not included in turnover, which coincides
with industry standards for defining turnover are the following: Permanent
• Short haul – number of passenger kilometers traveled for short
reduction in force, Employee death, Store or department closures.
haul flights (under 3,700 kilometers)
• Rail travel - calculated using third-party (e.g. travel service provider) Employees by gender
kilometer data
• Men: total number of employees who identify themselves as male.
2.2.5 Carbon emissions by scope • Women: total number of employees who identify themselves as female.
The amount of total CO e emitted from energy, product delivery and • Undisclosed: total number of employees who have not disclosed
2
business travel categorized into scopes as defined by the GHG Protocol. their gender.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 126
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Employees by age group 4. SUSTAINABLE MARKETPLACE
• Employees under 30 years old: the number of employees
Palm Oil: The percentage of Palm Oil in Boots UK
who are younger than 30 years old at period end.
and No7 Beauty Company certified using the following methods
• Employees between 30 – 50 years old: the number of employees
• Palm Oil derivatives using credits
who are between 30 and 50 years old at period end including 30
and 50 year old employees. • Palm Oil derivatives physically certified
• Employees over 50 years old: the number of employees who • Palm Oil used as an ingredient physically certified
are older than 50 years old at period end.
• Palm Oil used as an ingredient certified using credits
Employee category
Packaging Materials in owned brand products: The metric tonnes of
• Manager employees: the number of employees who have at least one materials used in owned brand primary, secondary and tertiary packaging
direct report. This definition is a subset of the manager population
• Metal
included in U.S. regulatory reporting.
• Glass
• Non-manager employees: the number of employees who do not have
any direct reports. • Wood/Pulp/Paper (excluding pallets)
• Senior Director and above: limited to the U.S. Retail pharmacy segment • Plastic
and U.S. Healthcare segment only.
Employment Type
• Permanent: An employee employed on an indefinite basis
or for an indeterminate period of time.
• Temporary: An employee employed on a fixed term or temporary
contract.
• Full-time: Employees working more than 30 hours per week.
• Part-time: Employees working less than 30 hours per week.
Collective bargaining
• Employees under a collective bargaining agreement: the number
of employees who are part of a collective bargaining agreement.
Collective bargaining is defined as negotiation of wages and other
conditions of employment by an organized body of employees.
Race, ethnicity of U.S. Retail Pharmacy and U.S. Healthcare employees
• People of color: the number of employees who identify themselves
as belonging to an ethnic or racial minority.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 127
Overview Governance Healthy Communities Healthy and Inclusive Workplace Healthy Planet Sustainable Marketplace Appendices
Legal Notice
Third-party trademarks mentioned are the property of their respective
owners. The use of words such as “partnered,” “partnering,” “partner”
and variations of such words in this ESG report is not intended to and
shall not be construed to imply that a legal partnership relationship
Forward-looking statements exists between Walgreens Boots Alliance and any other company.
All statements in this report that are not historical, including goals for
and projections of future results, the expected execution and effect of our Exchange rates basis of preparation
corporate social responsibility strategies and initiatives and the amounts
Foreign currency amounts have been presented in U.S. dollars for
and timing of their expected impact, constitute forward-looking statements
consistency, having been translated at the average exchange rate for
that are based on current societal, market, competitive and regulatory
the 12 months ending August 31, 2023. The most significant rates are
expectations. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future
1.38 U.S. dollar per British pound sterling and 1.18 U.S. dollar per euro.
performance and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions, known
or unknown, which could cause actual results to vary. These statements Funds raised in British pounds sterling or in euros over multi-year
speak only as of the date they are made and Walgreens Boots Alliance periods were converted to U.S. dollars using average exchange rates
undertakes no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statement for the reporting periods in which the funds were raised.
included in this report, whether as a result of new information, future events,
changes in assumptions or otherwise. Please see Walgreens Boots Alliance’s Photo Credits
latest Annual Report and subsequent SEC filings for a discussion of risk
Page 29 and page 48 top left and bottom left photo: Photo © Vitamin Angels
factors as they relate to forward-looking statements.
©2024 Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc. All rights reserved
Trademarks
Website: www.walgreensbootsalliance.com
Walgreens Boots Alliance, the Walgreens Boots Alliance logo and the
other trade names listed below are trademarks or registered trademarks of
Walgreens Boots Alliance and/or its affiliates in the U.S. and other countries.
WALGREENS BOOTS ALLIANCE is a trademark owned by Walgreens
Boots Alliance, Inc.
COMPLETE HOME, GET A SHOT. GIVE A SHOT., NICE!, SAVE A TRIP
REFILLS, W REDI, WALGREENS ADVANCED CARE, WALGREENS,
WALGREENS EXPRESS, WALGREENS FIND CARE and WALGREENS
FLU INDEX are trademarks owned by Walgreen Co.
BOOTS, BOOTS PHARMACEUTICALS, BOOTS SOLTAN, BOTANICS THE
POWER OF PLANTS, CLEAN ON ME, NO7, SLEEK MAKEUP, SOAP & GLORY
and YOURGOODSKIN are trademarks owned by The Boots Company PLC.
DUANE READE is a trademark owned by Duane Reade.
LIZ EARLE is a trademark owned by Liz Earle Beauty Co. Limited.
FARMACIAS BENAVIDES is a trademark owned by Farmacias Benavides,
S.A.B. DE C.V.
AHUMADA CONTIGO and FARMACIAS AHUMADA are trademarks owned
by Farmacias Ahumada, S.A.
Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2023 128
Contact us
WALGREENS BOOTS ALLIANCE, INC.
108 Wilmot Road
Deerfield, IL 60015
USA
+1 (847) 315-3700
www.walgreensbootsalliance.com
2233__1111 WWBBAA EESSGG FFrroonntt CCoovveerr CCoonncceepptt..iinndddd 22 1144//1122//22002233 1166::1166
