Environmental,
Social, and
Governance
Highlights
FY2023
FY2023
ESG Highlights
Contents
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY ESG REPORTING SOURCES
4 Leadership Letters 17 Sustainability Highlights 31 Ethics & Integrity Highlights
ESG Issue Briefs
6 Awards & Recognition 18 Product Supply Chain Sustainability 32 Ethics & Compliance
ESG Reporting Data
7 Our Company 19 Climate Change 33 Corporate Governance
8 Our Approach to ESG 20 Climate Change Spotlight 34 Engagement in Public Policy
21 Regeneration of Natural Resources: 35 Digital Citizenship: Ethical Use of
OPPORTUNITY
Forests, Land, Oceans Data & Responsible Use of Technology
11 Opportunity Highlights
22 Waste: Circular Economy 36 Digital Citizenship Spotlight
12 Human Capital: Good Jobs
23 People in Supply Chains 37 Human Rights
& Advancement for Associates
13 Human Capital Spotlight COMMUNITY APPENDIX
14 Equity & Inclusion at Walmart & Beyond 25 Community Highlights 39 About Our Reporting
15 Supplier Opportunity 26 Serving Communities 40 Forward-Looking Statements
27 Safer, Healthier Food & Other Products 41 Endnotes
28 Disaster Preparedness & Response
29 Disaster Preparedness & Response
Spotlight
FY2023
ESG Highlights
Introduction
FY2023
ESG Highlights Introduction Opportunity Sustainability Community Ethics & Integrity 4
LEADERSHIP LETTERS
A Message from our Chief Executive Officer
It was Sam Walton’s purpose to help people live we’re doing more than simply managing risks in these We’re also making progress toward our environmental
better lives. He wanted to help them save money areas. Managing risk isn’t enough. We have to think goals around the world. In partnership with our
so they could invest in their families and their differently, and we have to do more. We have adopted suppliers, we’ve made supply chains healthier by
communities. He wanted to help people build a mindset that prioritizes outcomes for business and embedding regenerative practices and reducing
something meaningful and worthwhile and to live a society — and a regenerative ambition. I’m proud carbon emissions, and we’re especially proud that
better life. He wanted to leave things better than he’d of the ways our team is bringing these principles to Walmart is now three-quarters of the way toward
found them. That’s the legacy he left our company, life across our business. We’re giving back, and we’re reaching our Project Gigaton goal of reducing or
and we remain committed to being a force for good following Sam’s example: we’re leaving things better avoiding one billion metric tons of greenhouse gases
in the communities we serve, all over the world. than we found them. by 2030.
For Walmart, this means actively addressing the
At the same time, we’re mindful that none of this Together, we’re working every day to help people
environmental and societal issues most relevant to
would be possible without our associates taking live better lives, both locally and globally. That’s
our business and stakeholders, and we win when our
action and bringing these goals to life. We’re grateful the promise we make to our stakeholders. We’re
customers, associates, suppliers, communities, and
for our associates’ hard work and positive mindsets, committed to this mission, and we believe that our
planet are better off because of Walmart.
their flexibility and their resilience, and it’s important success depends upon keeping this promise. And I
In our 61 years, we’ve shown that we’re capable of to Walmart that we create opportunities and invest believe we can do it. We are doing it. And by working
big things. We’ve embraced change and innovation in the people who have invested in our mission. together there’s no limit to what we can accomplish.
while staying true to our roots, and we’ve grown We want to build careers, not just jobs. In the U.S.
and expanded without forgetting our purpose. alone, about 75% of salaried store, club, and supply
We’re a people-led, tech-powered omni-channel chain management started their careers as hourly Doug McMillon
retailer dedicated to helping people save money associates. And Live Better U now allows associates
President and CEO
and live better, and we’re still built upon our original to choose from more than 70 programs in areas like
Walmart Inc.
foundation of timeless values. business management and data analytics. Walmart
pays for 100% of the tuition and books. These are just
Throughout our ESG Issue Briefs and these ESG
a couple of examples of our commitment to helping
Highlights, you’ll see the ways our commitments build
our associates live better lives, too.
on this foundation. We’ve focused on four themes
that guide our action: Opportunity, Sustainability,
Community, and Ethics & Integrity. And at Walmart,
FY2023
ESG Highlights Introduction Opportunity Sustainability Community Ethics & Integrity 5
LEADERSHIP LETTERS
A Message from our Chief Sustainability Officer
Walmart has grown from humble roots with the business partners, community partners, and even the Rewiring our business for a low-carbon future:
enduring purpose of helping people save money and planet (because as a retailer, our commodity sourcing, We are committed to achieving our science-based
live better. facilities, and customer communities depend on targets; last year we achieved a cumulative 23%
healthy ecosystems and climate). We believe that reduction in GHG emissions from our own operations
As a people-led, tech-powered omni-channel retailer,
when Walmart creates value for stakeholders, relative to our 2015 baseline year and have progressed
we want to help people live better not only through
we strengthen our business and deliver value to toward our goal of being powered by 100% renewable
our customer proposition but in the way we deliver it,
our shareholders, which allows us to invest in the energy. We continue to take meaningful action to
by:
capabilities to serve our stakeholders even better… decarbonize product value chains; through Project
• Creating opportunity: Being an employer of
propelling a virtuous cycle of shared value. We aim to Gigaton, Walmart suppliers report having reduced
choice, where all associates feel they belong, can
become a regenerative company — one that not only or avoided over 750 million metric tons of emissions
gain skills, and can advance through career paths
sustains but strengthens the people and the world since 2017. As electric vehicle (EV) ownership grows,
ranging from retail management to health care to
around us. we are building our own EV fast-charging network
tech.
at thousands of Walmart and Sam’s Club locations
Recent examples illustrate our approach:
• Enhancing sustainability: Operating efficiently,
coast to coast to create a convenient, reliable,
Investing in our associates: We have raised minimum
effectively, and sustainably in service of the
and affordable charging option for customers. We
starting wages over 90% and average hourly wages
customer and communities; building a resilient
believe our leadership on energy and emissions in the
54% since 2015 through improvements in jobs and
product supply chain that helps create prosperity
coming decade can create value for our business and
career paths, including changes based on direct
for people while sustaining and restoring our
stakeholders.
engagement, dialogue, and feedback from associates.
planet.
We invite you to read our FY2023 ESG Highlights and
Walmart associates have also helped shape and
• Strengthening community: Providing access
the accompanying ESG Issue Briefs to learn more
introduce additional benefits, such as extended
to everyday goods and services as well as good
about how we continue to strengthen our business by
parental leave, adoption benefits, and expanded vision
jobs, tax revenue, and philanthropic support for
creating value for our stakeholders.
care benefits. Our on-the-job training and programs
community needs.
such as Walmart Academy provide opportunities for
• Upholding the highest standards of ethics and
associates to grow their skills and careers; indeed
integrity: Being the most trusted retailer so our
approximately 88% of Walmart U.S. store roles above
Kathleen McLaughlin
stakeholders choose us every time.
entry level were filled internally in FY2023. Such
Our environmental, social, and governance efforts investments help us to attract, develop, and retain the EVP and Chief Sustainability Officer
center on the themes of opportunity, sustainability, top talent needed to continue bringing our purpose Walmart Inc.
community, and ethics and integrity. Our efforts to life.
create shareholder value by creating value for our
stakeholders — our customers, associates, suppliers,
FY2023
ESG Highlights Introduction Opportunity Sustainability Community Ethics & Integrity 6
Awards & Recognition
One of America’s
#3 #17
Top Corporations for
Listed on the
Women’s Business
2023 Bloomberg
Enterprises — from
Gender Equality
the Women’s Business
Index
2023 DiversityInc Top 50
Enterprise National
Fortune Change
Companies for Diversity
Council
the World
100% on the 2022 Human
Rights Campaign’s
#1 #1
100%
Corporate Equality Index
retailer in the 2022 Disability in National Truck Safety by the
Great Place to Work Certified
EPA’s Green Power Equality Index American Trucking Association
Walmart Inc. and Sam’s Club
Partnership rankings
For seventh consecutive year For eighth consecutive year (2023)
100%
FY2023
ESG Highlights Introduction Opportunity Sustainability Community Ethics & Integrity 7
Our Company
Walmart is a people-led, tech-powered omni-channel retailer dedicated
OUR VALUES HOW WALMART CREATES VALUE FOR STAKEHOLDERS
to helping people save money and live better — anytime and anywhere
— by providing the opportunity to shop in both retail stores and through
Respect for • Customers: Convenient access to quality, • Communities: Resources to build stronger, more
eCommerce, and to access our other service offerings. Through
affordable products and services inclusive communities
the Individual
innovation, we strive to continuously improve a customer-centric
• Associates: Purpose-driven work; opportunity for • Planet: Leadership on zero emissions, zero waste
experience that seamlessly integrates our eCommerce and retail stores in Service to the
good jobs and upward mobility and our regenerative approach to nature
an omni-channel offering that saves time for our customers. Customer
• Shareholders: Strong long-term returns through
financial and ESG leadership
Our strategy is to bring our purpose to life, which means making every day Strive for
• Suppliers: Access to customers and support for
easier for busy families, operating with discipline, sharpening our culture, Excellence
supplier development and growth
becoming more digital, and making trust a competitive advantage. We are
Act with
• Business Partners: Access to and understanding
committed to doing this in a way that is regenerative — helping to renew
Integrity
of engaged customers for our sellers, advertisers,
people and the planet through our business.
and ecosystem partners
OUR BUSINESS IN FY2023
Omni-channel retailer ~2.1 million associates 10,500 stores and $611 billion in revenue
serving approximately eCommerce websites
240 million customers in 20 countries
per week
FY2023
ESG Highlights Introduction Opportunity Sustainability Community Ethics & Integrity 8
OUR APPROACH TO ESG
Creating Shared Value
Shared value — addressing societal issues in ways that create value for Management of ESG
our business and stakeholders — lies at the heart of Walmart’s enterprise
Leadership of ESG issues starts with our CEO — with oversight from our
strategy and our approach to ESG issues.
Board of Directors — and cascades across our enterprise.
We believe we maximize long-term value for shareholders by serving our
The Board’s Nominating & Governance Committee (NGC) exercises
stakeholders: our customers, associates, suppliers, business partners, oversight over Walmart’s overall ESG strategy and certain priority
communities, and even the planet. issues, while other Board committees retain oversight over specific ESG
issues.
Addressing such societal needs builds the value of our business and as
Walmart’s Chief Sustainability Officer (CSO) helps define the ESG
business strengthens society, society strengthens business.
agenda and provides dedicated management and oversight of Walmart’s
global ESG initiatives and goals. The CSO provides updates to the
We aspire to become a regenerative company — helping to renew people
Walmart executive leadership team and NGC.
and the planet through our business. Each of our ESG priority issue areas
We have additional governance bodies at the management level,
offers a discrete shared value proposition: an opportunity to meet a
including the ESG Steering Committee and the ESG Disclosure
societal need through our business. Doing so aligns our business objectives
Committee that help guide ESG strategy and disclosure.
with societal objectives and increases our ability to create value for the
long term.
Read more: ESG Oversight and Management
and Corporate Governance ESG Brief
Read more: Our ESG Priorities
FY2023
ESG Highlights Introduction Opportunity Sustainability Community Ethics & Integrity 9
OUR APPROACH TO ESG
Our ESG Priorities
We prioritize the ESG issues that offer the greatest potential for Walmart Opportunity
to create shared value; these are issues that rank high in relevance to our
• Good jobs and advancement for associates
Stakeholder Engagement
business and stakeholders as well as Walmart’s ability to make a difference.
• Equity and inclusion at Walmart and beyond
• Growth for suppliers, sellers, and local economies Our ability to create shared value depends
For each priority ESG issue, our disclosures aim to:
on direct and frequent engagement with
• Articulate the relevance of the issue for societyand Walmart’s business our customers, associates, and community
leaders, as well as the people who
• Reflect an understanding of stakeholder expectations Sustainability
supply our products, hold our stock, and
• Share our aspirations, goals, and strategies to create shared value • Climate and renewable energy leadership
evaluate our performance. Stakeholder
• Zero waste in operations, products, and packaging perspectives and feedback help improve
• Describe our progress, opportunities, and challenges
the relevance and effectiveness of the
• Regeneration of natural resources: forests, land, and oceans
Read more: Our ESG Priorities products and services we offer and the
initiatives we support.
Day to day, we engage with customers,
Community
fellow associates, suppliers, members of
• Serving communities
the communities where we operate, and
• Access to safer, healthier food, products, and services shareholders.
• Disaster preparedness and response Additionally, our 2021 ESG priority
assessment included extensive outreach
to stakeholders, including customers,
associates, shareholders, suppliers, and
Ethics & Integrity
NGOs, to understand their perspectives
• Highest ethical and compliance standards on which issues Walmart should prioritize.
• Strong corporate governance
• Engagement in public policy Read more: Stakeholder Engagement
• Digital citizenship
• Respect for human rights
FY2023
ESG Highlights
Opportunity
Retail can be a powerful engine for inclusive economic
opportunity. We aim to advance equity and opportunity
throughout Walmart, our product supply chain, and
local communities to fulfill our customer mission,
strengthen our business, and help people build a better
life for themselves and their families.
RELATED ESG ISSUE BRIEFS:
Human Capital: Good Jobs &
Advancement for Associates
Equity & Inclusion at
Walmart & Beyond
Supplier Opportunity
FY2023
ESG Highlights Introduction Opportunity Sustainability Community Ethics & Integrity 11
Opportunity Highlights
68%
$47
full-time U.S. BILLION
hourly associates
2 >34,000 cumulative total
purchases supporting
American jobs
ASSOCIATES
(2021 through FY2023)
enrolled in Live Better U
37%
$21.75 of U.S. officers
are women
180,000
>
$13
>
U.S. associate
BILLION
average total hourly 3
U.S. ASSOCIATES
28%
compensation 1 sourced from ~2,400
received promotions;
diverse suppliers
5
of U.S. officers are 88% of roles4 above to U.S. businesses
entry level filled internally
people of color
FY2023
ESG Highlights Introduction Opportunity Sustainability Community Ethics & Integrity 12
Human Capital: Good Jobs & Advancement for Associates
Our aspiration: making retail a place of inclusive and equitable opportunity
where people can gain skills and experience to advance their careers
Associate Listening and Feedback
STRATEGY
As Walmart associates, engaging and listening more than 500,000 associates did so during our
to each other has been core to our culture 2022 survey. U.S.-based associates can also utilize
since our founding more than 60 years ago. the MyFeedback Portal, which was designed and
As the world becomes more digital, it creates launched as a digital, intuitive, self-service site.
• Make Walmart a place for everyone where • Drive a digital transformation that improves
additional opportunities to solicit feedback Hundreds of associates utilize this channel each
associates know they are listened to, valued, the associate experience
from and respond to each other. In FY2023, month. Feedback results are provided to leaders
engaged, and supported
• Strengthen the U.S. frontline workforce Walmart U.S. introduced the Engagement Pulse to create action plans and inform enhancements
• Prioritize the financial, physical, and development system in retail and related Survey, a monthly survey administered to over to our overall associate value proposition and
emotional well-being of associates sectors one million Walmart U.S. frontline associates ways of working. In FY2023, for example,
via the Me@Walmart app that helps leaders benefits, training, and education enhancements
• Provide opportunities for all associates to
improve engagement, retention, and the were made because of associate feedback.
learn and grow in their careers
overall associate experience. Additionally, our
Associate Engagement Survey now provides the
FY2023 HIGHLIGHTS
opportunity to submit open-text feedback, and
• Continued investment in • Enhanced engagement • Connected U.S. frontline
AVERAGE HOURLY WAGE AND TOTAL COMPENSATION (END OF FY2023)8
wages (+54% in the average capabilities, including through associates to career paths,
hourly wage since 2015) and digital Engagement Pulse with 88%6 of roles above
benefits, increasing average Surveys and the MyFeedback entry level filled internally and
ASSOCIATE AVG STARTING AVG HOURLY AVG TOTAL HOURLY
POPULATION WAGE9 WAGE COMPENSATION10
total compensation to portal >180,000 promotions7
>$21.75/hour, and enhancing Walmart U.S. segment11 >$15.25 >$17.00 >$21.50
parental leave and family-
Sam’s Club U.S. segment12 >$16.25 >$17.50 >$22.25
building benefits
U.S. supply chain associates (Walmart U.S. and Sam’s Club U.S.)13 >$23.25 >$25.50 >$33.50
See our Human Capital ESG brief for more information
FY2023
ESG Highlights Introduction Opportunity Sustainability Community Ethics & Integrity 13
HUMAN CAPITAL SPOTLIGHT
“
Career Growth Through Live Better U
All of my dreams were coming true.
I was ready for the next step of
Jarryn Robertson joined Walmart in 2009 as a part-time cash her skills and determination through rotations with several
my career.
office associate at Store 1196 in New Roads, Louisiana, before Home Office teams. Her hard work paid off: Jarryn was
transferring to work in asset protection in a supercenter and offered — and accepted — a job as a project analyst on the
— JARRYN ROBERTSON, PROJECT ANALYST
then a distribution center. Prior to working at Walmart, she’d Non-Traditional Talent Pathways Team at the Home Office in
wanted to get a college degree and had taken Bentonville, Arkansas.
classes on and off after high school but never
“When I received the job offer, I started
finished. Time, money, and a lack of direction
to cry,” she recalls. “All of my dreams were
had gotten in the way. In 2018 she heard
coming true. I was ready for the next step of
about a new program Walmart was launching
my career.”
— Live Better U. She took advantage of the
new, exciting opportunity and enrolled at Jarryn’s story is just one of the thousands of
LIVE BETTER U
Bellevue University, ultimately graduating stories of associates who have completed Live
with a business degree in December 2021. Better U programs, opening up new pathways
to career progression and promotion at
Shortly after graduating, Jarryn learned about
Walmart. The education and skills gained
the Home Office Pathway Experience, a new
through Live Better U have propelled many associates to
program designed to connect frontline associates who
grow their careers at Walmart.
are recent or soon-to-be college graduates with Home
Office roles.
Once Jarryn was accepted into the Home Office Pathway
Experience program in early 2022, she worked hard to show
FY2023
ESG Highlights Introduction Opportunity Sustainability Community Ethics & Integrity 14
Equity & Inclusion at Walmart & Beyond
Our aspiration: to advance equity and inclusion in our business, with our
suppliers and business partners, and in the communities we serve
Belonging at Walmart
STRATEGY
Walmart’s diversity, equity, and inclusion
efforts focus on creating a culture of
belonging, where people can bring their
best selves to work — and we can attract
• Create a culture of belonging, where all • Advance equity and inclusion in
and retain talent to serve our customer
associates feel accepted and valued for their society through business initiatives and
well.
unique identities and skills complementary philanthropy
Our efforts include removing barriers
• Promote inclusion through our sourcing of
to hiring and advancement; training and
products, services, and goods not for resale;
education; associate resource groups; and
marketing; and business relationships
robust oversight and reporting.
This year, we began seeking to measure a
sense of belonging through our Associate
FY2023 HIGHLIGHTS
Engagement Survey. We also hired
our first Chief Belonging Officer — an
• Diversified recruiting and talent pools, including our frontline hourly associate base and strategic evolution of the Chief Diversity Officer SELECT U.S. REPRESENTATION DATA14
partnerships with HBCUs; people of color represent 41% of management (vs. 39% in FY2022) role — in early FY2024.
ASSOCIATE PEOPLE
POPULATION WOMEN OF COLOR
• Worked with more than 200 diverse creators and brands in marketing and sourced more than $13 billion
U.S. workforce 52% 49%
from diverse suppliers
• Granted $58 million towards our $100 million Center for Racial Equity commitment to address disparities U.S. management 44% 41%
in the U.S. criminal justice, education, finance, and health systems, with an additional $7 million
U.S. officers 37% 28%
contributed towards racial solidarity efforts
U.S. total management 40% 43%
promotions earned
U.S. hourly-to-hourly 54% 50%
promotions earned
See our Equity & Inclusion ESG brief for more information
FY2023
ESG Highlights Introduction Opportunity Sustainability Community Ethics & Integrity 15
Supplier Opportunity
Our aspiration: we aim to create economic opportunities for our suppliers,
the people they employ, and their communities
Supporting American Manufacturing
STRATEGY Walmart has long supported American purchased an incremental $47 billion towards
manufacturing and the creation of jobs in the that new goal. Our sourcing can have a profound
U.S., completing a commitment to purchase impact on local communities: we expect our new
an incremental $250 billion in products made, commitment to catalyze the creation of more
• Support the creation of American jobs by • Promote the production of goods in India grown, or assembled in the U.S. in FY2023. than 750,000 new jobs across the U.S.
increasing our sourcing of products made, for export
Anticipating the successful completion of this As just one example, longtime Walmart Supplier
grown, or assembled in the U.S.
• Support smallholder farmers and small commitment, Walmart renewed its commitment Classic Fashion announced a new California cut-
• Source from and build capacity of diverse producers through sourcing and capacity in 2021 and expanded its incremental spend goal and-sew apparel facility in October 2022, which
suppliers building to $350 billion over ten years. is expected to create 125 jobs by 2023 and an
additional 225 jobs over five years.
As of the end of FY2023, Walmart has already
FY2023 HIGHLIGHTS
• Spent an incremental $47 billion on products supporting American jobs (2021 through
end of FY2023)
• Sourced more than $13 billion from ~2,400 diverse suppliers to our U.S. businesses
• Invested >$39 million grants in smallholder capacity building in India15 and
progressed against a commitment made to triple exports of goods from India to $10 billion by 2027
See our Supplier Opportunity ESG brief for more information
FY2023
ESG Highlights
Sustainability
Walmart seeks to transform our business and product
supply chains to be regenerative — optimizing
outcomes for climate, waste, nature, and people as
we serve our customers and grow our business.
RELATED ESG ISSUE BRIEFS:
Product Supply Chain
Sustainability
Climate Change
Regeneration of Natural
Resources: Forests, Land, Oceans
Waste: Circular Economy
People in Supply Chains
FY2023
ESG Highlights Introduction Opportunity Sustainability Community Ethics & Integrity 17
Sustainability Highlights
>750
MILLION MT CO e
2
reduced or avoided by 63%18
suppliers since 2017
16
>400
>2
MILLION ACRES
OF LAND
SUPPLIERS
of global private-brand
set goals and/or reported
conserved through
packaging is recyclable,
% progress on responsible
23.2
Acres for America
reusable, or industrially
recruitment through
since 2005
compostable, a
Walmart’s Supplier
5% increase over FY2022
Leadership Program on
reduction in combined
People
Scope 1 & 2 emissions
vs. 2015 baseline
17
(through 2021)
FY2023
ESG Highlights Introduction Opportunity Sustainability Community Ethics & Integrity 18
Product Supply Chain Sustainability
Our aspiration: accelerate progress on the sustainability of our own
20x2025 SUSTAINABLE COMMODITIES
assortment and product supply chains across the retail and consumer goods
industry
In 2016, Walmart announced “20x25”: a goal to source at least 20 agricultural commodities more sustainably
by 2025. Since then, we have been working on the following:
STRATEGY
• Set standards and requirements for product • Help customers make informed choices
sourcing through labeling and cause campaigns
Floral & Produce Specialty Crops Textile, Pulp, Ingredients Proteins
• Engage and support suppliers to pursue • Advocate for public policies that align with Fresh flowers, Cocoa, coffee, Paper & Timber U.S. corn, U.S. Seafood (wild
social and environmental initiatives sustainable supply chain priorities apples, bananas, and tea Cotton textiles, wheat, U.S. soy, caught and farm
berries, grapes, South American raised), meat
pulp, paper, and
• Lead consortia to accelerate collective • Accelerate systems change beyond Walmart
leafy greens, soy, and palm oil (South American
timber
action beyond Walmart through philanthropic investments pineapples, beef, U.S. beef,
stone fruit, and pork, and poultry),
tomatoes and dairy
FY2023 HIGHLIGHTS
Our approach to more sustainably sourcing these commodities
• Achieved at least 95% “more sustainable” certification for several commodities, including fresh and
frozen seafood,19 bananas,20 coffee,21 and tea22
• Encouraging our suppliers to adopt more • Collaborating with suppliers, other retailers,
• Offered products that meet trusted standards for personal well-being, our communities and the sustainable sourcing practices, including NGOs, and others to improve practices across
environment through the Built for Better online shop through product specifications and sourcing the sector
policies, as well as positions and policy
• Relaunched Member’s Mark brand — “Made with Our Member and Planet in Mind” • Asking suppliers to measure and report
statements
against progress
• Made steady progress across food, apparel, consumables, and general merchandise across climate,
• Revamping sourcing specifications and
waste, nature, and people strategies • Supporting place-based sourcing in critical
requiring certifications where available and
ecosystems
aligned with our aspirations
• Measuring and reporting transparently
See our Product Supply Chain Sustainability ESG brief for more information
Climate Change
Our aspiration: we aim to galvanize collective action across the retail
and consumer goods sector through advocacy, supplier engagement,
EV Fast Charging Network
philanthropy, and innovation in product supply chain practices while taking
steps to strengthen the resilience of our business against the effects of We are investing in clean energy
infrastructure in the U.S. to make electric
climate change
vehicle (EV) ownership more accessible, 20
6.08 6.71 6.67
reliable, convenient, and affordable for 15 6.15 6.85
7.25
STRATEGY our customers. By 2030, we intend to 13.84 7.37
10 12.76 12.30
11.41
build out our EV fast-charging network 10.35
8.68
5
to at least 10,000 chargers across 2,500+ 6.62
Walmart and Sam’s Club locations in the
0
U.S., expanding on the EV fast-charging
• Govern our climate strategy through • Adapt our business to be more resilient in
accountable leadership and assess climate risk the face of climate risk stations that are already available at over Scope 1 Scope 2 (market-based)
280 locations across the U.S.
• Mitigate emissions to achieve targets, • Advocate for 1.5˚C aligned public policy
covering our global operations (achieve
• Report transparently on our progress and
zero emissions by 2040) and supply chain
encourage suppliers to take action
(reduce, avoid, or sequester 1 billion metric
tons of emissions through Project Gigaton)
FY2023 HIGHLIGHTS
• Decreased our combined Scope 1 and 2 emissions23 by 23.2% (through 2021)
• Increased percentage of electricity supplied by renewable sources to 46% (through 2021)24
• Increased supplier participation in Project Gigaton to ~75% of U.S. product net sales25
• Achieved >750MMT CO e reduced, avoided, or sequestered through Project Gigaton26
2
• Advocated for climate-related policy in line with our Statement on Climate Policy including supporting
the climate provisions of the Inflation Reduction Act
eOC
)TMM(
snoT
cirteM
snoilliM
2
Walmart’s Progress on Operational Emissions
(Scope 1 and 2)27
0
eOC
)TMM(
snoT
cirteM
noilliM
FY2023
ESG Highlights Introduction Opportunity Sustainability Community Ethics & Integrity 19
ANNUAL GHG EMISSIONS
CY2015 CY2016 CY2017 CY2018 CY2019 CY2020 CY2021
PROJECT GIGATON: >750 MMT CO e REDUCED TO DATE28
2
(35)
(58)
(136)
(186)
(158)
(176)
CY2018 CY2019 CY2020 CY2021 CY2022 CY2023
Cumulative emissions reduced, avoided, or sequestered (MMT CO e)
2
See our Climate Change ESG brief for more information
FY2023
ESG Highlights Introduction Opportunity Sustainability Community Ethics & Integrity 20
CLIMATE CHANGE SPOTLIGHT
Project Gigaton: Transforming Supply Chains
Walmart launched Project Gigaton in 2017 as an ambitious initiative to
PROJECT GIGATON PILLARS
catalyze decarbonization in product value chains through engagement of
suppliers, NGOs, and other stakeholders. Our goal: to democratize climate
>750 MILLION
Packaging
action and help reduce or avoid one billion metric tons (a “gigaton”) Energy
MT CO e
of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030. Through Project Gigaton, we • Forums and summits
• Gigaton PPA 2
• Sustainable packaging
encourage suppliers to take action in six action areas that are key to
• Tools and playbooks
playbook
decarbonization and relevant to our suppliers’ businesses.
reduced or avoided by
suppliers since 201729
Over the past six years, we have expanded and deepened our work by
Nature Transportation
adding new tools, resources, and other opportunities for suppliers to
• Forums and summits • Collaborating on
accelerate engagement and impact. For example, as part of Project
public policy
• Place-based initiative
Gigaton, Walmart collaborated with Schneider Electric to provide access connectors • Sharing resources
to accelerators like Gigaton PPA, which offers suppliers the opportunity
to participate in aggregate, utility-scale power purchase agreements.
Waste Product Use
>5,200
We also worked with CDP and HSBC to launch the Sustainable Supply
& Design
• 10x20x30 initiative
Chain Finance Program, an early-payment program for suppliers who
• Investing in technical • Investing in technical
set science-based targets through Project Gigaton or have achieved assistance assistance
SUPPLIERS
certain score thresholds from CDP. As Project Gigaton continues to make • Golden design rules
progress across areas of the supply chain critical to decarbonization,
signed up
Walmart is focused on increasing supplier engagement and ambition and
for Project Gigaton
catalyzing positive action.
FY2023
ESG Highlights Introduction Opportunity Sustainability Community Ethics & Integrity 21
Regeneration of Natural Resources: Forests, Land, Oceans
Our aspiration: to place nature in the center of our business practices,
including by protecting, more sustainably managing, or restoring at least
Place-Based Sourcing
50 million acres of land and 1 million square miles of ocean by 2030
We support the development of place-based including the development and management
and jurisdictional initiatives, which aim to create of Marine Protected Areas and coral reef
STRATEGY
shared value for producers, suppliers, and restoration. We also collaborate with Indigo Ag
communities across a landscape or seascape. to source Great Value rice from a place-based
For example, we partnered with The Nature initiative in Arkansas. Rice farmers enrolled in the
Conservancy and the government of the project implement on-farm practices that are
• Govern our nature strategy through • Support conservation and restoration of
Republic of the Marshall Islands to source intended to improve water and land stewardship,
accountable leadership critical ecosystems
tuna certified to Marine Stewardship Council including crop rotation from legumes, fertilizer
• Identify nature-related dependencies, • Encourage the development of place-based
standards for our Great Value brand. The management, zero-grade rice production,
impacts, risks, and opportunities initiatives
initiative aspires to distribute at least 40% of net multiple-inlet irrigation with computerized holes
• Foster more sustainable production of • Advocate for and invest in enablers of income to directly support community-based election, and furrow irrigation.
commodities systemic change conservation and climate resilience projects
• Transition our operations toward
regenerative practices
FY2023 HIGHLIGHTS
• Engaged through business or philanthropy in efforts to protect, more sustainably manage, or restore
>30 million acres of land and >1.4 million square miles of ocean
• Pursued seven place-based commodity sourcing initiatives (e.g., rice, tuna)
• Launched a nature portal to connect suppliers to information regarding place-based commodity
sourcing and conservation opportunities
• Reached a milestone of over two million acres conserved through the Acres for America program
since 2005
See our Regeneration of Natural Resources ESG brief for more information
FY2023
ESG Highlights Introduction Opportunity Sustainability Community Ethics & Integrity 22
Waste: Circular Economy
Our aspiration: to achieve zero waste in our global operations and
accelerate the adoption of innovative packaging and products designed for
Circular Connector
circularity
In 2022 we launched our Circular Connector, fit with private brand packaging goals. To date,
designed to help connect innovative packaging the Connector has gathered over 200 more
STRATEGY
companies to our private brand merchants and sustainable packaging solutions and made more
suppliers. than 4,000 connections between packaging
providers and private brand suppliers.
Packaging companies submit their packaging
solutions through the Connector on the Walmart
• Achieve zero operational waste • Reduce plastic waste
Sustainability Hub; Walmart teams assess the
• Eliminate food waste • Engage customers in the circular economy
• Optimize packaging and encourage • Invest in local infrastructure to address
customer recycling systemic issues around waste management
FY2023 HIGHLIGHTS
• Reduced food waste 12% (vs. 2016 baseline); • Eliminated free plastic bags at checkout in
diverted >900M lbs. of food waste to Mexico, Canada, and more than 420 Walmart
composting, animal feed, anaerobic digestion, stores in the U.S.
and biochemical processing; and donated >760M
• Launched Walmart Restored, an online
lbs. of food globally30
marketplace where customers can buy
• 63% of global private brand packaging was refurbished products
recyclable, reusable, or industrially compostable31
• Diverted 78% of operational waste globally,
including 89% in Canada, 80% in Mexico, and 78%
in the U.S.32
See our Waste: Circular Economy ESG Brief for more information
FY2023
ESG Highlights Introduction Opportunity Sustainability Community Ethics & Integrity 23
People in Supply Chains
Our aspiration: to source responsibly while acting as a catalyst to improve
PEOPLE IN SUPPLY CHAINS — RETAIL SUPPLY CHAINS OF FOCUS
the well-being of people working in product supply chains
Walmart has committed to working with others to address risks to the dignity of workers in a minimum of 10
STRATEGY retail supply chains by 2025
• Set strong, responsible • Create economic • Collaborate with key
sourcing standards, opportunity for people in actors to address
monitor suppliers supply chains by sourcing systemic risks to worker
and facilities for from diverse and small well-being
compliance, and manage suppliers and investing to
non-compliances and support smallholders
remediation
FY2023 HIGHLIGHTS
• Assessed ~13,100 third-party responsible sourcing facility audit reports33
• Over 90% of assessed audit reports were rated green or yellow and less than 2% percent of facilities
assessed received a successive orange rating34
• 99% of Walmart U.S. and 99% of Sam’s Club U.S. net sales of fresh produce and floral were from
suppliers endorsing the produce Ethical Charter35
• Continued to invest in building capability in responsible recruitment and dignified working conditions,
including in grants to IREX, Global Fishing Watch, The Nature Conservancy, Polaris, and the Woodrow
Wilson International Center for Scholars
See our People in Supply Chains ESG brief for more information
FY2023
ESG Highlights
Community
As an omni-channel retailer with locations in thousands
of communities around the world, we seek to help
communities thrive and become more resilient.
RELATED ESG ISSUE BRIEFS:
Serving Communities
Safer, Healthier Food
& Other Products
Disaster Preparedness
& Response
FY2023
ESG Highlights Introduction Opportunity Sustainability Community Ethics & Integrity 25
Community Highlights
FOOD DONATION PROGRAM
>$1.7
cash and in-kind
donations globally
38
BILLION
%
93
>665
U.S. store and club
participation
37
MILLION
Launched the Walmart Healthcare
pounds of food
Research Institute to increase community
donated in the U.S. to
access to healthcare research that may
help fight hunger
36
help lead to safer, higher quality, and more
equitable healthcare
FY2023
ESG Highlights Introduction Opportunity Sustainability Community Ethics & Integrity 26
Serving Communities
Our aspiration: as an omni-channel retailer with a physical presence in
thousands of communities around the world, Walmart seeks to help those
Caring and Connected Communities
communities thrive and become more resilient
We believe in the power of positive, in-person For example, The Trust for Public Land will use
interactions among people of different a Walmart Foundation grant of $1 million for its
STRATEGY
backgrounds to build trust. Walmart provides initiative “On Common Ground,” which helps
support to organizations that bring people forge new relationships among community
together to create more caring and connected members through shared spaces and community
communities. programs at city parks across the U.S.
• Provide convenient access to affordable, • Strengthen community resilience by
quality goods and services supporting local organizations and causes,
increasing food access, and preparing for
• Contribute to economic vitality by providing
and responding to disasters
quality jobs, training and career paths,
investing in local suppliers, and • Build more inclusive and engaged commu-
contributing to local economies nities through advancing equity, supporting
caring and connected communities, and
deepening engagement between our stores
and clubs and their surrounding communities
FY2023 HIGHLIGHTS
• Contributed to local economies including by employing ~2.1 million people, paying $3.310 billion in
income-based taxes worldwide, investing $4.990 billion in store and club remodels in the U.S., sourcing
more than two-thirds of Walmart U.S.’s total product spend on items made, grown, or assembled in the
U.S., and donating more than $1.7 billion in cash and in-kind donations globally
• In the U.S., launched Spark Good, a new community engagement platform that provides more
opportunities for customers and associates to support the causes that matter most to them; our
U.S. locations, associates and customers collectively donated more than $146 million to charitable
organizations in FY2023
See our Serving Communities ESG brief for more information
FY2023
ESG Highlights Introduction Opportunity Sustainability Community Ethics & Integrity 27
Safer, Healthier Food & Other Products
Our aspiration: to improve the lives of people around the world by
providing access to safer, healthier, and more affordable food and products
Innovation in Food Safety
STRATEGY We use machine learning technology that the deployment of resources towards areas with a
integrates compliance data (such as audits and higher likelihood of food safety failure.
regulatory visits) and operations data (such as
The Food Marketing Institute awarded Walmart
facilities maintenance and logistics) to identify
the 2022 Food Safety Innovation Award for
• Provide safe, high-quality foods for our • Provide safe and affordable merchandise early risk indicators of pressure or strain on our
development and deployment of this technology.
customers, including by promoting a positive while promoting safer use and formulation stores or clubs. This information helps us prioritize
food safety culture and a safer food system of products across the industry
• Improve access to healthier food options
and enable customer choice
FY2023 HIGHLIGHTS
• Supported a strong food safety culture, including by conducting approximately 71,000 independent food
safety audits and training ~1.2 million associates in at least one food safety course
• Promoted access to healthier food by ensuring SNAP benefits can be used at all Walmart stores as well
as online in 49 states and by updating the Great for You nutrition criteria to match the 2020-2025 USDA
Dietary Guidelines for Americans
• Reduced the footprint of priority chemicals in Walmart U.S. and Sam’s Club U.S. formulated consumables
by 20% compared to a 2017 baseline39
See our Safer, Healthier Food & Other Products ESG brief for more information
FY2023
ESG Highlights Introduction Opportunity Sustainability Community Ethics & Integrity 28
Disaster Preparedness & Response
Our aspiration: to effectively prepare for and respond to disasters,
with a focus on associate well-being, serving customer needs through
Collaborating with Partners
swift and safe recovery of business operations, and supporting
for Disaster Preparedness
impacted communities
A key aspect of disaster planning and
preparation is knowing the community
STRATEGY
and establishing relationships with
community stakeholders before a crisis
event. Including relevant stakeholders
in disaster planning efforts promotes
• Disaster planning and preparation through • Disaster response, including ensuring
coordinated disaster response efforts,
risk assessment, business continuity associate safety and well-being, swift and
drives information sharing, helps us to
planning, private-public collaboration, safe recovery of business operations for the
direct resources where they are most
SUPPORTING OUR STAKEHOLDERS
training, and supporting community benefit of our customers, and supporting
needed, and can lead to more targeted
resilience-building, particularly in vulnerable impacted communities
support for communities in need after
communities
a disaster.
Associates
To strengthen these relationships and
Ensuring the well-being of our
coordination, Walmart convened a
associates and their families
Preparedness Summit in 2022, bringing
FY2023 HIGHLIGHTS together more than 100 representatives
from corporations, government agencies,
Customers and Members
NGOs, and local nonprofits at Walmart’s
• To protect our associates, customers, and communities, our Emergency Operations Center
Maintaining and restoring our
Home Office campus. Participants shared
operates 24/7/365
operations to serve customers
knowledge and best practices on topics
• ~$16 million globally in cash and in-kind donations for disaster recovery and preparedness and members swiftly and safely
including preparedness and technology,
strengthening partnerships, the role
of supply chains in disaster relief, and
Communities
improving and increasing coordination
Helping vulnerable communities
and innovation in the disaster
build resilience before disasters
preparedness space.
and supporting impacted
communities after disasters
See our Disaster Preparedness & Response ESG brief for more information
FY2023
ESG Highlights Introduction Opportunity Sustainability Community Ethics & Integrity 29
DISASTER PREPAREDNESS & RESPONSE SPOTLIGHT
Hurricane Ian Response
In the days before Hurricane Ian hit Florida in September Walmart private fleet drivers poured into the region from
2022, Walmart associates began preparations for the storm, across the country, delivering an additional 3,800 truckloads
including facilities walks and roof checks, airing hurricane of water to support stores and clubs and for distribution to
preparedness videos and weather forecasts on TVs in stores communities and local nonprofits.
and clubs, and pre-staging resources and mobile generators
Walmart truck drivers also brought relief to the community
at Walmart facilities in the expected path of the storm.
through Walmart’s Mobile Relief Kitchen, a fully equipped
Our team began working closely with the state of Florida’s
cooking trailer designed for disaster response. For several
Emergency Operations Center, where they would remain
weeks, these associates cooked and served over 84,000 hot
embedded for more than a week to help coordinate with
meals.
local facilities, emergency responders, and local leaders. The
storm brought historic flooding and rainfall and hundreds Walmart driver Greg Carter, who is based in Indiana, traveled
of Walmart stores, clubs, and distribution centers in its to Florida to work at the Mobile Relief Kitchen with his
path were affected, with dozens losing power and suffering fellow associates. To him, stepping up to help is simply part
damage from wind and water. Shortly after the storm passed, of the job. “Everything about Walmart is to take care of the
stores and clubs began to reopen to safely resume serving customer,” Carter said. “This is just one of the facets that
customers and members. we have. Walmart fills the needs of communities — not only
when times are good, but especially when times are bad.”
Customers, members, and associates saw significant damage
to their homes and were left without utilities and water. To Overall, Walmart, Sam’s Club, and the Walmart Foundation
meet community needs, Walmart locations hosted services donated over $6 million in grants and supplies that helped
and water and meal distributions in their parking lots. nonprofits feed and shelter people, clean up debris, and
Nonprofits including Cajun Navy Relief and The Salvation provide relief to underserved communities.
Army worked alongside our associates to help get resources
See more in our Hurricane Ian timeline.
like water, food, and emergency supplies to people in need.
While power remained down for many across the region,
some of our parking lots also hosted shower and laundry
services, including P&G’s Tide Loads of Hope.
FY2023
ESG Highlights
Ethics & Integrity
Walmart strives to make trust a competitive advantage.
Modeling the highest standards of ethics and
compliance helps us create and maintain a culture of
integrity, which builds trust in our business.
RELATED ESG ISSUE BRIEFS:
Ethics & Compliance
Corporate Governance
Engagement in Public Policy
Digital Citizenship: Ethical
Use of Data & Responsible
Use of Technology
Human Rights
FY2023
ESG Highlights Introduction Opportunity Sustainability Community Ethics & Integrity 31
Ethics & Integrity Highlights
WALMART INC. BOARD OF DIRECTORS40
>1.4
MILLION
% %
91 64
associates globally completed
Code of Conduct training
Non-management Independent
~3
MILLION
% %
27 18
tech assets continually
scanned for vulnerabilities
Female Racially/ethnically
diverse
FY2023
ESG Highlights Introduction Opportunity Sustainability Community Ethics & Integrity 32
Ethics & Compliance
Our aspiration: to model the highest standards of ethics and compliance
ETHICS & COMPLIANCE PROGRAM FOUNDATIONS
to create and maintain a culture of integrity and build trust
Integrity in Action Award
STRATEGY Setting the appropriate tone from the top
and creating a culture of ethics is integral
to an effective Ethics and Compliance
program. Recognizing and rewarding
• Set foundations for an effective ethics and • Uphold standards of compliance across the ethical behaviors helps to facilitate the
compliance program including maintaining a business, including related to health and creation of that culture.
strong corporate culture of compliance and safety, anticorruption, antidiscrimination and
Walmart’s Integrity in Action Award
a mindset of continuous improvement harassment, food safety, digital citizenship,
is a global recognition program that
and responsible sourcing
celebrates associates who exemplify our
values and champion a culture of integrity.
For example, in 2022, a Walmart Chile
associate was recognized with this
award for upholding company values by
declining a supplier’s unethical proposal.
FY2023 HIGHLIGHTS The associate was presented with the
award and celebrated in the company’s
publications.
• Updated our Ethics & Compliance program to focus on nine core program foundations
• Offered 29 languages on the 24/7 Walmart ethics helpline
• More than 1.4 million associates globally completed Code of Conduct training
• Walmart private fleet drivers drove more than 1 billion safe miles
See our Ethics & Compliance ESG brief for more information
FY2023
ESG Highlights Introduction Opportunity Sustainability Community Ethics & Integrity 33
Corporate Governance
Our aspiration: to create an environment of accountability, transparency
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE METRICS41
and trust in our business that fosters business integrity, financial stability,
and responsible and long-term growth METRIC 2023 2022 2021
Director independence — independent Board members as a percentage of all directors 64% 64% 67%
STRATEGY Percentage of Board members who are women 27% 27% 25%
Percentage of Board members who are ethnically or racially diverse 18% 18% 17%
Board and committee meeting attendance rate — meetings attended as a percentage of 99% 98% 98%
all meetings
• Maintain a majority independent Board • Design compensation programs to support
enterprise strategy
• Provide effective oversight of strategy,
risks, and opportunities • Engage regularly with and receive feedback
from a wide variety of stakeholders
• Develop a talented and diverse pipeline of
leaders
FY2023 HIGHLIGHTS
• Provided updates on our ESG agenda and progress to the Nominating and Governance Committee
of the Walmart Board
• Each governance-related Board committee, as well as the Strategic Planning and Finance Committee,
is led by an independent chair
• Established an ESG Disclosure Committee to supervise, review, and monitor the preparation of ESG
reports and information for publication as well as approve information governance standards related to
the production of ESG reports and information
See our Corporate Governance ESG brief for more information
FY2023
ESG Highlights Introduction Opportunity Sustainability Community Ethics & Integrity 34
Engagement in Public Policy
Our aspiration: to shape public policy that enables our business and
the creation of shared value for our business, customers, associates,
Marketplace Trust & Transparency
and other stakeholders
Counterfeit and stolen goods are a growing curb these activities and reduce the safety
STRATEGY problem on some online marketplaces. That is threat to our customers. The Act was enacted
why we advocated for the INFORM Consumers in 12 states in 2022 and became federal law in
Act, consumer protection legislation that would December 2022.
• Align public policy activities • Engage in the political • Work with trade associations
with our business priorities process by encouraging and business coalitions to
and values our associates to vote prioritize and advance issues
as well as through the that affect our stakeholders
• Advocate for policies that
Walmart Inc. Political Action and our business
promote the interests of
Committee for Responsible
our customers and other
Government
stakeholders
FY2023 HIGHLIGHTS
• Advocated for laws, regulations, and policies • Promoted greater accessibility to health and
aligned with our shared-value interests, wellness services by advocating for expanding
including the climate provisions in the Inflation the role of health professionals and supporting
Reduction Act and the American Innovation and legislation that helps ensure individuals have the
Manufacturing Act technology to access telehealth services42
• Engaged trade associations in support of our • Advanced a more circular economy by
agenda to oppose tariffs that increase costs for promoting extended producer responsibility
consumers and reduce the competitiveness of legislation
U.S. manufacturers
See our Engagement in Public Policy ESG brief for more information
FY2023
ESG Highlights Introduction Opportunity Sustainability Community Ethics & Integrity 35
Digital Citizenship: Ethical Use of Data & Responsible Use of Technology
Our aspiration: to build and maintain the trust of customers, associates,
DIGITAL TRUST COMMITMENTS
and communities with respect to our use of technology and data
Walmart’s Digital Trust Commitments provide a foundation for the company to earn and maintain customer trust
STRATEGY
in an omni-channel, data- and technology-driven world
• Promote fairness through our Digital Trust • Manage and support the safety of our
Commitments records, information, and data
• Protect the privacy of customer and • Protect our information and digital
associate information through our policies infrastructure
Service Excellence Integrity Respect
and controls
Our use of technology We strive for excellence We will use data Our data practices
and data will be in in our technology, responsibly and and technology will
service of people making it simple, transparently and treat people fairly, with
FY2023 HIGHLIGHTS
convenient and secure always with integrity dignity and respect
• Incorporated privacy by design principles into the design, development, procurement, and modification
of our tech, business processes, and projects that include processing of personal information
• Continued annual assessment of our cybersecurity programs against third-party requirements
• >1.4 million associates completed trainings on digital citizenship and information security
• Blocked more than 100 billion bots on our websites in 2022
See our Digital Citizenship ESG brief for more information
FY2023
ESG Highlights Introduction Opportunity Sustainability Community Ethics & Integrity 36
DIGITAL CITIZENSHIP SPOTLIGHT
How Walmart Protects Against Cyber Threats
In today’s complex security landscape, cyberattacks can One alert that has become more prevalent — especially
disrupt companies, institutions, and governments in the blink around the holidays — are retail bots, which are automated
of an eye. Walmart’s Information Security team helps to build programs that purchase inventory online. As more holiday
and maintain the trust of our customers, associates, and commerce volume has shifted online, we worked to eliminate
stakeholders by securing our operating environment. these bots via automated, purpose-built capabilities that only
allow legitimate customers to purchase products. Last year,
Our team analyzes more than seven trillion alerts annually.
we blocked approximately 8.5 billion bots per month.
To help manage the volume of threats, we are prioritizing
automation, including by deploying leading third-party tools,
supplementing them with our own purpose-built tools, and
leveraging internal and external experts to enhance our
automated threat management capabilities.
FY2023
ESG Highlights Introduction Opportunity Sustainability Community Ethics & Integrity 37
Human Rights
Our aspiration: to use our scale, capabilities, and influence to help people
SALIENT HUMAN RIGHTS ISSUES
and communities improve their lives, with a focus on our salient human
rights issues
Walmart focuses its efforts on its identified salient human rights issues:
STRATEGY
• Identify salient human rights issues and • Manage salient human rights issues
focus areas most relevant to our business in our operations and supply chains,
including through policies, engagement,
• Govern our approach to human rights Providing a Fair Combating Forced
Promoting a Safe
in accordance with our Human Rights assessing impacts, integration of findings, Treating Workers & Inclusive Work & Underage Labor
& Healthy Work
performance tracking, and appropriate with Respect
Statement, including oversight by Environment
Environment • Forced labor,
remedy
management and the Walmart Board of • Pay; working hours • Anti-discrimination including debt
• Physical safety and
Directors
• Freedom of and harassment bondage
security of work
association and premises • Diversity and • Underage labor
collective bargaining
inclusion
• Workplace abuse • Vulnerability of
FY2023 HIGHLIGHTS
• Meaningful • Gender equity migrant workers;
• Healthy work
opportunities for responsible
environments
• >400 suppliers set goals and/or reported progress on responsible recruitment through Walmart’s
workers to be heard recruitment
Supplier Leadership Program on People
• Human trafficking
• Financially supported the creation of a data ecosystem and engagement channels to empower and
promote the responsible recruitment of migrant workers in the U.S.-Mexico agriculture corridor
• Began a refresh of our human rights due diligence approaches, including re-examining our salient issues,
focus areas, governance, policies, and practices
• Participated in the Owned Operations working group of the Consumer Goods Forum, which includes
Human Rights Due Diligence activities
See our Human Rights ESG brief for more information
FY2023
ESG Highlights
Appendix
FY2023
ESG Highlights Introduction Opportunity Sustainability Community Ethics & Integrity 39
About Our Reporting
Walmart has reported on a wide range of ESG issues since 2005. Our reporting is focused on our priority ESG issues
— those that we believe are the most relevant to our business and important to our stakeholders.
Each priority issue is covered in-depth in our ESG Issue Briefs. The although in certain instances third parties assisted in the process of
briefs cover our aspirations and strategies with respect to that issue, the collecting, analyzing, and calculating information.
relevance of the issue to business and society, our key goals and metrics,
Our reporting is guided by widely used voluntary reporting frameworks,
and our progress to date. These briefs will be updated from time to time
including the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards, Sustainability
and may not align with fiscal year reporting periods.
Accounting Standards Board (SASB), the Task Force on Climate-related
These ESG Highlights provide an overview of our shared value approach Financial Disclosures (TCFD), and the United Nations (U.N.) Sustainable
to ESG, our ESG priorities, and key highlights from the year, but it is not Development Goals (SDGs). We also report through programs such as
intended to be comprehensive. This report covers activities during the CDP, a global environmental disclosure system. Please see our GRI, SASB,
fiscal year ending January 31, 2023 (FY2023), except as otherwise noted. TCFD, and UN SDGs tables for more information.
Calendar years (CY) are marked as such or written in a four-digit format.
All references to “Walmart” in our ESG reporting are to Walmart
As we highlight each issue in this report, we provide links to the relevant
Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries that
issue brief or briefs.
were subsidiaries during the reporting period, excluding all acquired
New this year, we are sharing our key ESG metrics as a downloadable eCommerce businesses, platforms, and/or marketplaces, unless otherwise
spreadsheet to make it easier for our stakeholders to get the information noted. Financial information referenced in our ESG reporting reflects
they need. This spreadsheet will be updated from time to time as new the scope of the Walmart Inc. consolidated financial statements unless
information becomes available. otherwise noted. This report also covers some activities of the Walmart
Foundation, a separately incorporated Delaware charitable private
We sought and received external assurance from a third party with respect
foundation. “Walmart.org” is used to refer to the collective philanthropy of
to certain emissions-related information. We did not seek or receive
Walmart Inc. and the Walmart Foundation.
external assurance from third parties with respect to other information,
FY2023
ESG Highlights Introduction Opportunity Sustainability Community Ethics & Integrity 40
Forward-Looking Statements
These ESG Highlights and our various ESG Issue Briefs do not cover all Briefs. We urge you to consider all of the risks, uncertainties, and factors
information about our business, and inclusion of information therein is identified above or discussed in these ESG Highlights and each of our ESG
not an indication that the subject or information is material to Walmart’s Issue Briefs carefully in evaluating the forward-looking statements therein.
business or operating results for purposes of U.S. securities laws and Walmart cannot assure you that the results reflected or implied by any
regulations. Statements other than statements of historical or current forward-looking statement will be realized or, even if substantially realized,
facts, including statements and images about our ESG targets, goals, that those results will have the forecasted or expected consequences
aspirations, commitments and programs, and other business plans, and effects. Unless expressly stated otherwise, the forward-looking
initiatives, and objectives are forward-looking statements and are based statements in these ESG Highlights and our ESG Issue Briefs are made
on Walmart management’s current assumptions and expectations. These as of the effective date identified in the issue brief, and we undertake no
statements are typically accompanied by the words “aim,” “ambition,” obligation to update or revise these forward-looking statements to reflect
“anticipate,” “aspire,” “believe,” “can,” “commit,” “estimate,” “expect,” subsequent events or circumstances. Standards of measurement and
“forecast,” “goal,” “hope,” “intend,” “may,” “on track,” “plan,” “predict,” performance made in reference to the goals, aspirations, and objectives
“project,” “strive,” “target,” “will,” “would,” or other similar words. All such referred to in these ESG Highlights and our various ESG Issue Briefs
statements are intended to enjoy the protection of the safe harbor for are developing and based on protocols, processes, and assumptions
forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the that continue to evolve and are subject to change in the future, and
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Our actual future results, no assurances can be given that any plan, initiative, projection, goal,
including the achievement of our targets, goals, or commitments, could commitment, expectation, or prospect set forth in these ESG Highlights
differ materially from our projected results as the result of a variety or our ESG Issue Briefs can or will be achieved.
of factors, including, but not limited to, changes in circumstances,
assumptions not being realized, or other risks, uncertainties, and factors,
many of which are outside of our control. Such risks, uncertainties
and factors include the risk factors discussed in Item 1A of our most
recent Highlight Report on Form 10-K and in subsequent filings with
the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC); they also include the
challenges, assumptions and dependencies identified in our ESG Issue
FY2023
ESG Highlights Introduction Opportunity Sustainability Community Ethics & Integrity 41
Endnotes
1 Average total compensation includes average hourly pay, other compensation, and benefits per president positions. Data for the U.S. is as of January 31. certification or engaged in a fishery improvement project (FIP) or Aquaculture Improvement Project (AIP).
hour for full- and part-time associates. This does not include special cash bonuses or paid leave related to Tracked on the FishChoice platform, FisheryProgress.org. Publicly registered FIPs include FIPs and Pre-
15 As reported by grantee organizations. Farmers may benefit from more than one investment or
COVID-19. FIPs, both of which are registered with Fishsource.
program. Each engagement will be included in calculating total reach.
2 The calculation excludes the following associate types: Home Office, pharmacists, on-site-clinics, 20 Includes Walmart U.S. and Sam’s Club U.S. bananas. Results do not include volume from spot buys.
16 Calculated in accordance with Walmart’s Project Gigaton Accounting Methodology, available on
drivers, management trainees, and temporary associates. Spot buy bananas may not qualify as certified “more sustainable.” Walmart defines “more sustainable”
the Walmart Sustainability Hub. Suppliers submit information during a Project Gigaton reporting season;
bananas as bananas that are certified by Rainforest Alliance, Sustainably Grown, or Fair Trade.
3 Data for promotions includes both hourly and management promotions and excludes Walmart figures reported are for the reporting season that took place during the corresponding fiscal year. Because
Home Office promotions. Walmart does not restrict suppliers to reporting only on emissions avoidance and reduction efforts that are 21 Includes Walmart U.S. and Sam’s Club U.S. combined coffee. Walmart defines “more sustainable”
attributable to the suppliers’ business with Walmart, actions taken and reported through Project Gigaton coffee as coffee sourced as certified by Fair Trade, Rainforest Alliance Certified, or UTZ.
4 Calculation is for associates working in stores, clubs, and supply chain.
cannot be used to measure Walmart’s Scope 3 emissions, either absolutely or in year-over-year reductions.
22 Includes Walmart U.S. private brand black and green tea bags and instant iced teas as certified.
5 A diverse supplier is defined as a U.S. privately held company that is recognized as at least 51%
17 Annual Scopes 1 and 2 GHG emissions are updated from time to time for changes in emission Walmart defines “more sustainable” tea as tea sourced as certified by Rainforest Alliance.
owned and operated by a woman, minority, veteran, disabled veteran, a person with a disability, or a
factors or activity data when more accurate information become available. This may result in updated
member of the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, or queer (LGBTQ+) community. All references to 23 Annual Scopes 1 and 2 GHG emissions are updated from time to time for changes in emission
emissions reported in the ESG Climate Change brief that may not correspond to results reported to CDP
“diverse suppliers” in this report follow this definition. factors or activity data when more accurate information become available. This may result in updated
for our annual Climate Change questionnaire. Flipkart emissions data is excluded from Walmart’s Scope 1
emissions reported in the ESG Climate Change brief that may not correspond to results reported to CDP
6 Calculation is for associates working in stores, clubs, and supply chain.
and 2 emissions footprint and progress calculation. We believe excluding Flipkart’s data will have negligible
for our annual Climate Change questionnaire. Flipkart emissions data is excluded from Walmart’s Scope 1
7 Data for promotions includes both hourly and management promotinos and excludes Walmart impact on the overall reporting.
and 2 emissions footprint and progress calculation. We believe excluding Flipkart’s data will have negligible
Home Office promotions.
We engage Lucideon CICS to independently verify Walmart’s reported Scope 1 and 2 emissions as reported impact on the overall reporting.
8 Wage metrics in the table exclude the following associate types: Home Office associates, to CDP annually, pursuant to ISO 14064-3 (the international standard for verification of Greenhouse
We engage Lucideon CICS to independently verify Walmart’s reported Scope 1 and 2 emissions as reported
pharmacists, on-site-clinics, drivers, management trainees, and temporary associates. Gas inventories). We follow Walmart’s Greenhouse Gas Inventory Methodology in calculating our GHG
to CDP annually, pursuant to ISO 14064-3 (the international standard for verification of Greenhouse
emissions, which is consistent with the principles and guidance of the World Resources Institute and the
9 The average hourly starting rate is calculated as the average hourly wage of U.S. associates that Gas inventories). We follow Walmart’s Greenhouse Gas Inventory Methodology in calculating our GHG
World Business Council for Sustainable Development’s Greenhouse Gas Protocol Initiative (“The GHG
joined in the preceding six months. Starting wage ranges were $12-$32/hour (Walmart U.S.), $15-$32/hour emissions, which is consistent with the principles and guidance of the World Resources Institute and the
Protocol”) for corporate GHG accounting and reporting. Scope 2 (market-based) emissions include the
(Sam’s Club U.S.), and $16-$30 (supply chain). The minimum starting wage rate was increased to $14/hour in World Business Council for Sustainable Development’s Greenhouse Gas Protocol Initiative (“The GHG
carbon reduction value of renewable electricity procured from onsite and offsite projects.
Walmart U.S. in February 2023. Protocol”) for corporate GHG accounting and reporting. Scope 2 (market-based) emissions include the
To account for structural changes in our business, we strive to adjust our emission reduction progress carbon reduction value of renewable electricity procured from onsite and offsite projects. To account
10 Average total compensation includes average hourly pay, other compensation, and benefits per
on Scope 1 and 2 emissions to add or subtract emissions for entities acquired or divested in the year the for structural changes in our business, we strive to adjust our emission reduction progress on Scope 1 and
hour for full-and part-time associates. This does not include special cash bonuses or paid leave related to
acquisition or divestiture took place, including adjusting for previous years (including the baseline year). 2 emissions to add or subtract emissions for entities acquired or divested in the year the acquisition or
COVID-19.
divestiture took place, including adjusting for previous years (including the baseline year).
18 For the time frame of the private brands packaging survey, we instructed suppliers to use their
11 This segment includes Walmart U.S. stores and supply chain.
latest or most recent 12-month period for which they have data available. If they reported last year, use 24 This includes generation from active renewable and low-carbon projects. It considers the combined
12 This segment includes Sam’s Clubs and supply chain.
the same reporting period as the initial/prior reporting year to avoid gaps or overlap with the prior year’s contribution of power generated from on-site and off-site projects as well as renewable energy generation
13 Supply chain includes associates who work in distribution and fulfillment centers but excludes submissions. For suppliers that did not complete the survey or provided unusable data, proxy data was feeding into the grids where our sites are located. Third-party-verified energy consumption data is one
drivers. substituted to provide a full estimate of global private brand packaging. For the proxy calculation, a market year in arrears for the CY2019 and CY2020 years. For CY2021, the latest energy consumption data was
level approach was used. used. This was used in combination with the electricity procured from our renewable energy projects
14 U.S. metrics include all 50 states but exclude Puerto Rico. U.S. non-management metrics include
and the most recent grid fuel mix information obtained from the International Energy Agency for the
all hourly associates, excluding temporary associates. U.S. management metrics include all salaried, exempt 19 Includes Walmart U.S. and Sam’s Club U.S. fresh and frozen, wild-caught and farmed seafood.
regions where we operate. This estimate does not include energy data for our Flipkart business. We believe
associates. U.S. officer metrics include president, executive vice president, senior vice president, and vice Sourced from fisheries that are third-party certified as more sustainable, actively working toward
excluding Flipkart data will have a negligible impact on our estimate.
FY2023
ESG Highlights Introduction Opportunity Sustainability Community Ethics & Integrity 42
25 The U.S. product net sales figure used for the calculation includes Walmart U.S. and Sam’s Club the Walmart Sustainability Hub. Suppliers submit information during a Project Gigaton reporting season; 34 Facility color ratings denote the seriousness of findings identified in the audits.
product net sales for the previous four quarters (Q3 through Q2) prior to the start of the survey reporting figures reported are for the reporting season that took place during the corresponding fiscal year. Because
35 Results are limited to net sales of Walmart and Sam’s Club direct suppliers and do not include data
window. The percentage represents U.S. product net sales of suppliers that reported to Project Gigaton in Walmart does not restrict suppliers to reporting only on emissions avoidance and reduction efforts that are
from “spot buy” or “direct store delivery” suppliers. Direct suppliers represent 90% of Walmart U.S. net
the reporting year versus all U.S. product net sales. The calculation excludes Walmart International segment attributable to the suppliers’ business with Walmart, actions taken and reported through Project Gigaton
sales of the relevant department, and 89% of the Sam’s Club U.S. net sales of the relevant department. The
product net sales from the calculation. cannot be used to measure Walmart’s Scope 3 emissions, either absolutely or in year-over-year reductions.
U.S. product net sales figure used for the calculation includes Walmart U.S. and Sam’s Club product net
26 Calculated in accordance with Walmart’s Project Gigaton Accounting Methodology, available on 29 Calculated in accordance with Walmart’s Project Gigaton Accounting Methodology, available on sales for the previous four quarters (Q3 through Q2) prior to the start of the survey reporting window. The
the Walmart Sustainability Hub. Suppliers submit information during a Project Gigaton reporting season; the Walmart Sustainability Hub. Suppliers submit information during a Project Gigaton reporting season; percentage represents U.S. product net sales of suppliers that reported to Ethical Charter in the reporting
figures reported are for the reporting season that took place during the corresponding fiscal year. Because figures reported are for the reporting season that took place during the corresponding fiscal year. Because year versus all U.S. product net sales. The calculation excludes Walmart International segment product net
Walmart does not restrict suppliers to reporting only on emissions avoidance and reduction efforts that are Walmart does not restrict suppliers to reporting only on emissions avoidance and reduction efforts that are sales from the calculation.
attributable to the suppliers’ business with Walmart, actions taken and reported through Project Gigaton attributable to the suppliers’ business with Walmart, actions taken and reported through Project Gigaton
36 Based on reports from Feeding America
cannot be used to measure Walmart’s Scope 3 emissions, either absolutely or in year-over-year reductions. cannot be used to measure Walmart’s Scope 3 emissions, either absolutely or in year-over-year reductions.
37 Based on reports from Feeding America.
27 Annual Scopes 1 and 2 GHG emissions are updated from time to time in the ESG Climate Brief to 30 Based on review of material handling and waste diversion processes, as reported by waste vendors,
38 Total cash and in-kind donations includes combined philanthropic efforts of Walmart and the
account for changes in emission factors or the availability of more accurate activity data. Flipkart emissions food banks, and stores. In cases where certified or otherwise documented weights were not available due
Walmart Foundation.
data is excluded from Walmart’s Scope 1 and 2 emissions footprint and progress calculation. We believe to industry challenges, they have been estimated based on waste audits, historical data, extrapolation for
excluding Flipkart’s data will have a negligible impact on the overall reporting. Our emissions footprint in similar facilities in size and scope, etc. 39 Walmart measures its chemical footprint in terms of priority chemicals, or PCs based on supplier
CO e is calculated to include emissions for our operations for the period in which we owned the operations reports collected through UL WERCSmart for in-scope products sold. Walmart references regulatory
2 Walmart’s operational food waste reduction goal is aligned with Target 12.3 of the United Nations
in the reporting year. This may result in updated emissions reported not corresponding to results reported and authoritative lists to determine priority chemicals. These lists can be found at https://www.
Sustainable Development Goal (SDG). Progress towards food loss and waste reduction goal measured in
to CDP for our annual Climate Change questionnaire. walmartsustainabilityhub.com/sustainable-chemistry/implementation-guide/appendices. Our footprint
conformance with the Food Loss and Waste Protocol’s Food Loss and Waste Accounting Standard (FLW
covers in-scope formulated consumables products within beauty, personal care, baby, pet, and household
We engage Lucideon CICS to independently verify Walmart’s reported Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions Standard) for quantifying food and/or associated inedible parts removed from the food supply chain. This
cleaning products sold by Walmart U.S. stores and Sam’s Clubs in the U.S. In any given year, an increase or
as reported to CDP annually, pursuant to ISO 14064-3 (the international standard for verification of figure is based on review of material handling and waste diversion processes, as reported by waste vendors,
decrease in UPC volume weight disclosures may impact reporting. To learn about formulation disclosure,
Greenhouse Gas inventories). We follow Walmart’s Greenhouse Gas Inventory Methodology in calculating food banks and stores. In cases where certified or otherwise documented weights were not available due
please visit Section 2: Transparency of our Sustainable Chemistry Implementation Guide.
our GHG emissions, which is consistent with the principles and guidance of the World Resources Institute to industry challenges, they have been estimated based on waste audits, historical data, extrapolation for
and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development’s Greenhouse Gas Protocol Initiative (“The similar facilities in size and scope, etc. The 2016 baseline was adjusted to remove markets (Argentina, Japan, 40 Metrics presented correspond with information reported in Walmart’s Annual Proxy Statements for
GHG Protocol”) for corporate GHG accounting and reporting. The GHG Protocol outlines three emissions U.K.) that have since been divested; reported reduction is as against this adjusted baseline. the stated years; director metrics are based on nominees for election at the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting
sources (referred to as “scopes”) that provide the framework for operational boundaries. The three scopes for each year.
31 For the time frame of the private brands packaging survey, we instructed suppliers to use their
are:
latest or most recent 12-month period for which they have data available. If they reported last year, use 41 Metrics presented correspond with information reported in Walmart’s Annual Proxy Statements for
Scope 1, “Direct Emissions,” represent emissions from the combustible fuels and other sources that occur the same reporting period as the initial/prior reporting year to avoid gaps or overlap with the prior year’s the stated years; director metrics are based on nominees for election at the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting
directly on sites (e.g., refrigerants,) and mobile emissions sources. submissions. For suppliers that did not complete the survey or provided unusable data, proxy data was for each year.
substituted to provide a full estimate of global private brand packaging. For the proxy calculation, a market
Scope 2, “Indirect Emissions,” represent emissions that occur off-site to produce electricity or steam 42 Walmart is a member of the Alliance for Connected Care and the American Telemedicine
level approach was used.
purchased for use at corporate locations. Association; we also are a member of the Consumer Technology Association.
32 Based on review of material handling and waste diversion processes, as reported by waste vendors,
Scope 3, “Other Indirect Emissions,” represents emissions from activities down or upstream from a
food banks, and stores. In cases where certified or otherwise documented weights were not available due
company’s core business such as product use, waste disposal, commuting, and business travel.
to industry challenges, they have been estimated based on waste audits, historical data, extrapolation for
Scope 2 (market-based) emissions include the carbon reduction value of renewable electricity procured
similar facilities in size and scope, etc. Original goal covered U.S., Canada, Japan, and the U.K., and now
from onsite and offsite projects. To account for structural changes in our business, we strive to adjust our
includes Mexico. Walmart divested its retail operations in the U.K. and Japan in February and March of 2021,
emission reduction progress on Scope 1 and 2 emissions to add or subtract emissions for entities acquired
respectively.
or divested in the year the acquisition or divestiture took place, including adjusting for previous years
33 Where a facility is required to be disclosed to Walmart, “Active” status denotes that the supplier can
(including the baseline year).
use the facility for Walmart production.
28 Calculated in accordance with Walmart’s Project Gigaton Accounting Methodology, available on
FY2023
ESG Highlights Introduction Opportunity Sustainability Community Ethics & Integrity 43
Contact Us
Additional information about Walmart can be found by visiting us at
corporate.walmart.com, on LinkedIn, and on Twitter.
Your feedback is important to us. Email us at
ESG_WMT@walmart.com.
