
Contents
3 A Message From Our CEO 10 Our People 44 Governance
Talent Recruitment Corporate Governance
4 About Warner Bros. Compensation and Benefits Ethics and Integrity
Discovery
Employee Development Anti-Bribery and
Warner Bros. Discovery Engagement and Retention Anti-Corruption
at a Glance Ethics Hotline
Labor Relations
Our Guiding Principles Supplier Diversity
Protecting Human Rights
Data Privacy and Cybersecurity
Workforce Health, Safety,
6 Our Approach to
and Wellness Political Spending and
Sustainability
Engagement in Public
Promoting a Respectful
Policy Matters
Identifying Environmental, Workplace
Social, and Governance (ESG) Responsible Content
Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion
Priorities
About This Report 28 58 Appendix
Our Community
ESG Governance
Sustainability Accounting
Using Our Platform to Further
Awards and Recognitions Standards Board (SASB) Index
Philanthropic Impact
2023 Sustainability Task Force on Climate-Related
Corporate Social Responsibility
Report Highlights Financial Disclosures Index
(CSR) Pillars
Greenhouse Gas Emissions
35 Our Planet Calculation Methodology
Environmental Management
Climate Action
Sustainable Workplaces
Sustainable Productions
2
2023
Sustainability
Report
HACKS
A Message From Our CEO
Dear Stakeholders,
At Warner Bros. Discovery (WBD), we are committed to At WBD, we prioritize efforts to minimize environmental
telling stories that reflect the full range of human impacts across our workplace and productions, including
experiences while shaping our culture in a meaningful way. lowering our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and
We are pleased to deliver our Company’s inaugural increasing energy efficiency. In pursuit of these goals, we
Sustainability Report, which details how we honor this established the greenhouse gas emissions inventory for
commitment responsibly. Scope 1 and 2 and five material Scope 3 categories, which
we disclose in this report.
Through our work, we believe we have an opportunity and
a responsibility to make a difference in our communities I am proud of what we have accomplished over the past
Through our work, we believe we
and the world at large — and our strong focus on nearly two years. While we have made great strides, we
environmental, social, and governance (ESG) policies and still have much to do, and we are more committed than have an opportunity and a
initiatives underscores this commitment. ever to making a lasting impact through our collective
responsibility to make a
efforts. With a strong foundation in place, we look forward
Driven by our Company’s Guiding Principles, we champion to continuing to tell great stories that entertain, inform, difference in our communities
diverse voices, perspectives, and experiences in our and inspire, while building a strong legacy of social good
and the world at large — and our
workforce and around the globe. To this end, this year, we that benefits our employees, our consumers, and the
expanded our pipeline programs to include more regions, world. strong focus on environmental,
functions, and networks with the goal of nurturing the next
social, and governance (ESG)
generation of diverse creative talent. We invest in
employee growth by providing training, coaching, and policies and initiatives
professional development opportunities designed to assist
underscores this commitment.
employees in aligning their individual learning with
business goals. We also take seriously our responsibility to David Zaslav
President and CEO
provide an environment and culture where employees feel
Warner Bros. Discovery
safe, respected, and able to realize their full potential.
3
2023
Sustainability
Report
2023
Sustainability
Report
CURB YOUR ENTHUSIASM
About Warner Bros.
Discovery
Formed in April 2022 with the close of the transaction combining the WarnerMedia business with
Discovery, Warner Bros. Discovery, Inc. (the “Company,” “we,” “us,” “our,” “Warner Bros. Discovery,” or
“WBD”), is a leading global media and entertainment company. We create and distribute the world’s most
differentiated and complete portfolio of content, brands, and franchises across television, film, sports,
news, streaming, gaming, and experiences (i.e., tours, theme parks, etc.). We bring together the scripted
and the unscripted, the local and the global, the timely and the timeless.
We are home to a powerful creative engine and one of the largest collections of owned content in the
world. Additionally, we serve audiences and consumers around the world with content that informs,
entertains, and, when at its best, inspires.
WARNER BROS. DISCOVERY AT A GLANCE
OUR BRANDS Company Facts
Available in more than 220 countries and territories and in 50 languages, we inspire, inform, and entertain
audiences worldwide through our iconic brands and franchises, including Discovery Channel, Max, 220+ 50
discovery+, CNN, DC, Eurosport, HBO, HGTV, Food Network, OWN, Investigation Discovery, TLC, Magnolia
Network, TNT, TBS, truTV, Travel Channel, MotorTrend, Animal Planet, Science Channel, Warner Bros. Motion
countries and territories languages
Picture Group, Warner Bros. Television Group, Warner Bros. Pictures Animation, Warner Bros. Games, New
Line Cinema, Cartoon Network, Adult Swim, Turner Classic Movies, Discovery en Español, Hogar de HGTV,
and others.
~35,300
employees
4
2023
Sustainability
Report
Our Guiding Principles
At Warner Bros. Discovery, we are defined not only by the work we produce, but also by the way we get that work done. Our Guiding Principles are who we are at our core. They are
values that anchor our decisions and how we show up. They guide our interactions with one another and determine the individuals who thrive here. They are unique to us and are what
help us succeed as a team.
Trust each other, succeed Be curious, innovate, and Put creators, consumers, and Empower others, have Advocate the mission, move
together, and grow together. focus on the future. partners at the center and courage, and pursue equity. with speed, and drive results.
share extraordinary stories.
Collaborate across teams and Drive change, embrace Amplify the voices of global Have an owner’s mindset;
make decisions that are best for disruption, and never Tell stories that entertain and storytellers to reflect bring a perspective, take
WBD overall. stop learning. inspire our viewers, our audiences around the world. decisive rapid action, and
communities, and each other. manage spend responsibly.
Use data and technology to
Prioritize growth, development, Intentionally seek out diversity,
transform what we create and Make clear choices, set
and well-being for our teams. Foster creativity by giving the remove barriers, and create
how we tell stories and deliver. ambitious goals, and be
freedom to try new things and space for all to share ideas and
Respect and support each accountable for results.
Experiment, fail fast, produce our best work. be heard.
other and celebrate wins.
acknowledge mistakes, and Speak up and fearlessly
Deliver the best experience; Actively listen and lead
learn from them. challenge the norm.
anticipate what consumers with empathy, integrity,
want and be fan-obsessed. and transparency.
5
2023
Sustainability
Report
TOKYO VICE
Our Approach to
Sustainability
We are building on our strong legacies with the goal to do
well as a business, while also doing good as members of
communities around the world. We intend to build on our
previous commitments and legacies as a champion for the
diverse voices, perspectives, and experiences in our
workforce and our world, and, ultimately, to foster a
respected, successful, sustainable, and inclusive global
media and entertainment company.
AND JUST LIKE THAT…
6
2023
Sustainability
Report
Identifying
ENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE
Environmental, Social,
• Climate Change • Content Standards
and Governance Mitigation and Resilience
• Ethical Business Practices
• Waste
(ESG) Priorities • Executive Compensation
• Water
• Leadership and Board
To guide our ESG strategy and reporting, in 2023, Diversity
we completed an ESG materiality assessment, SOCIAL
• Public Policy,
led by an external organization.
• Community Engagement Partnerships, and
and Impact Government Relations
For the assessment, we collaborated with a third-
party consultant to develop a list of key ESG • Talent Development • Responsible Advertising
priorities, determined by internal sustainability and Retention and Marketing
documents, relevant reporting frameworks,
• Diversity, Equity, & • Responsible Sourcing
stakeholder priorities, and existing and upcoming
Inclusion
regulations. We collected input from these sources • Platform Access
through interviews and publicly available data. As a • Fair Labor Practices Controls
final step, we held meetings with internal leaders to
• Human Rights • Privacy and Data
create our list of priority ESG topics.
Protection
• Talent Recruitment
These topics align with our ESG priorities and
• Workforce Health,
initiatives from legacy programs, which we intend to
Safety, and Wellness
build on as we move forward as WBD. They are a
valuable guide for our ESG strategy and reporting.
7
2023
Sustainability
Report
About This Report ESG Governance
This report highlights our commitment to sustainability The Warner Bros. Discovery Board of Directors (the
and the different aspects of our governance, oversight, “Board”) provides oversight of ESG activities through the
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
policies, programs, and performance around the issues Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee and
determined to be material to the sustainability of the Audit Committee. ESG oversight is provided by the Nominating
and Corporate Governance Committee and
Warner Bros. Discovery.
Audit Committee
The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee is
We are guided by our key stakeholders and third- responsible for overseeing and monitoring the Company’s
party frameworks, including the Sustainability strategy, policies, commitments, and initiatives with
Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Media & respect to ESG matters. The Audit Committee reviews the
CEO
Entertainment standard and the Task Force on Company’s key public ESG disclosures, as well as the
The CEO provides executive direction
Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). Unless adequacy and effectiveness of applicable internal
on ESG strategy
otherwise stated, this report covers Warner Bros. reporting and controls related to such disclosures. The
Discovery’s performance in fiscal year 2023, ending Audit Committee also oversees key finance-related
December 31, 2023. initiatives related to ESG. To ensure that ESG is
appropriately managed throughout the organization, we
CORPORATE LEADERSHIP TEAM
have designed the governance structure on the right.
ESG at WBD is led by our EVP, Global Head
of ESG, reporting directly to WBD’s Chief
Legal Officer, and is supported by our
Awards and Recognitions other senior executives including our Chief
People and Culture Officer and Chief
Global Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion Officer
2023 Forbes 2024 Newsweek’s 2024 Built In’s 100 Best 2023 Street Law
America’s Best Large America’s Greatest Places to Work Corporate Champion ESG/CSR TEAM
Employers Workplaces for Diversity in the U.S Award
The team supports WBD’s ESG strategy and
works across the organization to advance ESG
initatives and is directly accountable for WBD’s
environmental strategy
2023 Fortune World’s Most 2023 RippleMatch Campus
2023 Handshake Early
Admired Companies: #7 in Forward Awards: Enterprise
Talent Award
Entertainment Industry Early Career Programs
8
2023
Sustainability
Report
2023 Sustainability Report Highlights
OUR PEOPLE
~6,900 12,000+ 40 hours Launched Men
Women
53.1%
46.6%
employees participated in hours of tech training immersive leadership DEI Inclusive Storytelling Guide,
development programs completed by employees training through our supporting diverse, equitable,
Inclusion Journey for and inclusive storytelling
Executives
OUR COMMUNITY OUR PLANET GOVERNANCE
New employees required to complete
Launched Corporate Social Established the greenhouse gas
training on Code of Ethics within first 45
Responsibility pillars to guide emissions inventory for Scope 1 and 2
days; all employees required to acknowledge
our social impact efforts and five material Scope 3 categories
annually and complete training bi-annually
MWh of renewable energy generated
volunteer hours completed by and purchased in Finland, New Zealand, Completed an ESG materiality assessment
41,488
employees 44,841 Poland, the United States, and the to guide our ESG strategy and reporting
United Kingdom with 1,035 MWh
generated on-site
causes and organizations Robust cybersecurity program based on
Environmental Media Association Green
7,343 supported through employee industry-standard frameworks ISO 27001
Seals, 28 with Gold Seal distinction
40
giving and volunteerism and NIST
(EMA’s Green Seal recognition program honors
progress in sustainable production)
9
2023
Sustainability
Report
Our
People
At WBD, we strive to create the world’s greatest content across
film, television, sports, news, and games — and creating the
world’s greatest content means having the world’s greatest team.
We are home to the best storytellers, creating world-class
content for consumers around the world.
Our Board and leadership team believe that effective talent
management and development are important to our continued
success. To retain the best and brightest talent in the industry, our full
Board conducts at least one meeting each year at which it reviews the
Company’s talent strategies, leadership development, and pipeline
and plans for key executive positions. The Board has also tasked our
Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee with overseeing
the process of succession planning and our Compensation
Committee with implementing programs to retain and motivate key
talent. These committees receive updates from our Chief People and
Culture Officer, who is responsible for overseeing the workforce,
including building and nurturing a workforce prepared to meet the
changing media landscape while fostering an industry-leading
inclusive company culture globally.
10
2023
Sustainability
Report
Talent Recruitment
TALENT PIPELINE STRATEGY Women in Product, Out in Tech, National Association INTERNSHIP PROGRAM — REACH HONORSHIP
of Hispanic Journalists, National Association of Black
Our multifaceted talent pipeline is built by our
Journalists, Asian American Journalism Association,
WBD awards Reach Honorships, internship-scholarship
central Talent Acquisition Sourcing team,
American Black Film Festival, Vets in Tech, Disabled
packages, to graduating high-school seniors passionate
particularly within areas experiencing growth and/
American, and The Association of LGBTQ+
about the business of media and entertainment. The
or attrition. This allows us to create a hiring forecast
Journalists.
program provides opportunities across more traditional
to fulfill upcoming talent needs and develop diverse
business functions, such as finance, human resources,
and functional pools of talent with the skill sets
One of our diverse pipelines is built by our Early
operations, marketing, and communications, to more
needed across our technology, creative, and
Talent team, which focuses on top talent early in their
technical or creative roles such as content development,
corporate businesses.
career through bespoke intern and graduate
post-production, and games.
programs. (See the Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion —
Championing inclusion is central to our talent-
Pipeline Programs section for more information.) Recipients of the Reach Honorships are awarded:
acquisition philosophy. It is woven into our end-to-
end talent attraction strategy and recruiting • Paid summer internships at WBD Studios in Burbank,
Promoting from within further enhances our talent
processes, from our candidate sourcing strategies CA, while in college
pipeline and provides growth opportunities for
and recruiting processes to the partnerships,
employees, which is why internal employees may • A $5,000 scholarship for tuition and related
platforms, and tools we invest in.
apply for all available positions. In 2023, 20% of expenses paid directly to the college/university
global hires at WBD were internal candidates.
To further drive meaningful impact, we have • Professional development and mentor opportunities
dedicated diversity sources and a Diversity Outreach throughout the program
team whose charter includes building diverse talent CORPORATE INTERNSHIP PROGRAMS
More information regarding the Reach Honorship Program
pipelines within areas of high growth, high attrition,
WBD has an award-winning global internship can be found on WBD’s website.
or particularly low representation. We do so through
program, providing students with paid learning
strategic partnerships that enable us to engage and
opportunities to experience firsthand what it’s like
build brand affinity with top diverse talent, quickly
to work with the best talent in the industry.
and at scale. This is particularly true in highly
Opportunities range from technology, design,
competitive areas like gaming and technology, where
distribution, marketing, publicity, development,
diverse talent is in scarce supply and high demand.
production, news, games, and animation to
Some of our key partnerships include Grace Hopper
corporate functions, such as finance, legal, and
(Anita B. Foundation), AfroTech, Latinas in Tech,
11
2023
Sustainability
Report
WBD DAY OF SERVICE human resources. Internships at WBD, which are offered up to three times per year, go
beyond 12 weeks of work. Students are truly immersed in the culture of WBD. Interns are
hired by managers who curate assignments designed to give students real-world work
experience. Beyond their day-to-day responsibilities with their managers and teams,
interns are offered 12 weeks of programming that includes an executive speaker series,
professional development seminars, mentorship, and networking opportunities.
Graduating seniors are offered exclusive opportunities to interview and be selected for
roles with hiring managers.
In addition to WBD’s core summer internship program, WBD offers internship opportunities
in the fall and spring. WBD also incorporates students from key partners (see the Talent
Acquisition Diversity Outreach section). In addition, WBD’s Legal Department hosts
diversity Legal Fellows in the summer.
Compensation and Benefits
We are a talent-driven business, aiming to attract, develop, and motivate top talent
throughout our Company. To support these objectives, our People and Culture programs
are designed to provide competitive, locally relevant benefits, performance-based pay, and
nonfinancial support and incentives.
WBD provides a comprehensive benefit package with industry-leading wellness and family-
support programs across the globe, built around the five pillars of well-being: mental,
physical, social, financial, and familial. In two locations in the U.S., we offer on-site childcare
centers and emergency backup care to eligible employees. We also provide on-site medical
and wellness centers in multiple sites across the U.S. and U.K., which offer convenient,
confidential, and professional medical attention for a range of concerns, including
preventive care, common illnesses, and travel medicine. Additionally, we offer leading
tools and resources to support the mental health and well-being of our employees. See
Workforce Health, Safety, and Wellness section for more information.
12
2023
Sustainability
Report
We provide an array of benefits and programs that support our employees in their personal and professional lives.
Core benefits provided to regular, full-time employees include1:
Local medical, dental, and vision programs Products and services to support financial well-being,
in many countries around the world including life, accident, and disability insurance plans,
discount benefits, financial planning tools, a 401(k)
savings plan in the U.S., and retirement/pension plans in
Health Savings Accounts (HSA) and Flexible more than 20 countries, with competitive contributions
Spending Accounts (FSA) from the Company for employees at all levels
On-site wellness and fitness centers across Flexible work arrangements around the globe,
several of our office locations allowing employees to better balance work and
personal commitments
Family support programs, including on-site
childcare in certain offices, backup Pre-tax commuter benefits, including mass transit,
childcare services, family caregiver leave, parking, and carpooling expenses
adoption, surrogacy, parental leave, and
cryopreservation assistance
Tuition reimbursement up to $10,000 annually for all
eligible U.S. employees in good standing
Leading tools and resources to support the
mental well-being of our employees and
their dependents, including mental health Employee stock purchase plan, which allows certain
counselors and 24/7 access to free, employees globally (where legislation permits) an
confidential support through our Employee opportunity to buy WBD common stock at a discounted
Assistance Program (EAP) administrators price through convenient after-tax payroll deductions
with no commission charges
1. Temporary, seasonal, and production employees are eligible for medical and other benefits based on their employment type and union affiliation.
13
2023
Sustainability
Report
Employee Development
Professional development is integral to success at WBD. To allow employees to align their individual learning with business goals, we provide training, coaching, and professional
development opportunities to employees across our business segments. Regardless of what stage an employee is at in their career, our professional development programs give our
employees broader exposure to opportunities, as well as a chance to develop a network of peers and build on their strengths.
GLOBAL LEARNING, LEADERSHIP, AND ORGANIZATIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS
The Global Learning, Leadership, and Organization Academy, and Pluralsight, to upskill technical teams. In • Coaching: Employees who have been nominated have
Development team oversees our programs to inspire, 2023, more than 12,000 hours were spent in tech trainings access to a 1:1 coaching platform, “Better Up,” and more
equip, and empower our people to thrive. offered by our external platforms. seasoned leaders have access to an impressive portfolio
of hand-picked coaches who understand WBD’s culture
The development of our people starts on day one when all To support our training and development programs, we and context. WBD has an annual license covering 550
hires begin with orientation and time to learn the ropes of offer programming from a diverse collection of internal employees, with 1,500 employees taking up the 4-month
their department. In the technology space, entry-level and external coaches and learning experts, each skilled in program. In addition to Better Up, WBD has more than 30
hires are provided with a mentor and programming for delivering practical, actionable solutions. These coaches Executive Coaches who work with approximately 200
their first six months to ensure a smooth transition into lead programs such as: leaders at the Senior Vice President (SVP) level and
the Company. above each year. These coaching arrangements vary in
• Workplace Learning Communities: Online learning hubs
length and focus. WBD has a very diverse pool of
that bring our employees the latest tools, resources,
Employees’ learning and development journeys are then coaches, enabling the team to meet very specific
articles, videos, and podcasts, as well as live webinars with
supported through access to a suite of global programs coaching needs.
top speakers and authors.
and offerings, which are accessible and inclusive. All
• Academies: Continuous learning programs focused on the
regular employees across all levels, including leadership, • Development “Sprints” and “Workouts”: Interactive ongoing or evolving needs of a specified team,
people management, and professional populations, can programs led by external experts and coaches that are department, or organization and include exclusive
available to all employee levels and that address topics
openly register and attend the sessions. We also offer a learning material that fosters more robust development
such as personal career development, energy
comprehensive suite of on-demand self-paced training. while also building a culture around learning and focusing
management, team dynamics, and communication skills.
objectives on the categorical needs of the organization.
WBD also works with multiple trusted suppliers located
• People Manager Development: Programs that provide
across the globe to deliver a robust array of training and foundational people-management skills to set managers up for In 2023, approximately 6,900 employees participated in
development programs to employees at all levels, including success, drive results, and empower their teams, which we various development programs, including global
leadership, people management, and professional encourage our new and experienced people managers around programs, such as Sprints, WBD Engage, Leadership
populations. Additionally, we partner with external the world to attend. In 2023, approximately 1,400 people Workouts, and Master Classes. Additionally, employees
platforms, such as LinkedIn Learning, Coursera, Cloud managers attended one of our people-manager programs. joined Live Webinars and Open Curriculum workshops.
14
2023
Sustainability
Report
LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT
We also invest in a robust array of internal and external comprehensive succession planning and development programs
to prepare our talent for critical roles and leadership positions for the future. These programs include:
Better Up: A coaching platform offering unlimited Global VP Program: WBD Senior Leadership Program is
access to more than 4,000 accredited coaches a 4-month immersive program, including a 2.5-day
worldwide. WBD offers a 4-month program to 1,500 in-person experience, coaching, and virtual group
employees a year, supporting their personal sessions. Leaders cover a variety of topics, including
development, well-being, and career. strategy, leading at scale, and creating inclusive teams.
Typically, 70–100 leaders attend this program annually.
EMPLOYEE DEGREE PROGRAMS PERFORMANCE REVIEWS
We offer employee degree programs to help employees To foster employee development, WBD also provides
expand their knowledge and improve job and/or business regular employees with frequent performance reviews,
skills. In the U.S., all eligible employees can put forth a including year-end reviews, to help set goals and ambitions
request for employee degree programs or certifications. for the upcoming year.
TRIXIE MOTEL
15
2023
Sustainability
Report
Engagement and Retention Leadership team. This data, along with exit surveys, serves as an
important factor guiding decision-making related to employee retention
and other people-related strategies. Analyzing employee departures
Employee engagement and retention is crucial to WBD. We aim to
and combining that with the exit survey insights enables us to
promote an open feedback culture and foster a thriving and
continually refine and enhance our approaches to talent retention.
continuously evolving workforce by establishing touchpoints through
surveys spanning the entire employee lifecycle. This includes:
• Annual employee engagement survey Labor Relations
• Candidate experience survey
We recognize that we need all our creative partners to feel valued and
• Onboarding survey
rewarded, and that we must be flexible and adaptable to focus on telling
• Exit survey great stories. As one of the world’s leading producers of film and
television content, WBD entities such as Warner Bros. Television, Warner
• Targeted ad-hoc surveys addressing specific initiatives
Bros. Pictures, and HBO have for several decades been signatory to
These surveys are strategically designed to foster open feedback and more than 110 entertainment industry collective bargaining agreements
establish two-way communication between employees and leaders. The in the United States, which, on a daily basis, cover tens of thousands of
insights gained from these surveys offer valuable perspectives on a number WBD production employees across hundreds of its productions. WBD
of specific topics, including employee satisfaction, business ethics, and work has deep historical and ongoing relationships with all of the industry
environment, such as communication, leadership, work-life balance, and guilds and unions and regularly interfaces with the unions, including the
career development. To streamline this process, confidential responses and Writers Guild of America (WGA), Directors Guild of America (DGA),
employee sentiments are aggregated and shared with leaders and People Screen Actors Guild-American Federation of Television and Radio
and Culture partners through a third-party reporting tool. Artists (SAG-AFTRA), International Alliance of Theatrical Stage
Employees (IATSE), Teamsters, International Brotherhood of Electrical
WBD’s annual employee engagement survey serves as a key data point Workers (IBEW), Office and Professional Employees International Union
on employee satisfaction and provides a platform for employees to (OPEIU), Service Employees International Union (SEIU), and UNITE HERE,
express their opinions on various aspects of their work environment. We as well as local unions such as the Animation Guild and Studio Security
work to ensure response confidentiality and data privacy. In 2023, 69% of and Fire Association (SSFA). WBD also believes in fostering positive and
employees completed the annual employee engagement survey. The direct engagement with our employees and creative partners, both
%
overall engagement favorability score was 71%. Employees reported high union and non-union, in all locations in which we operate, including 71
levels of pride and satisfaction with the organization. In addition, ethics, company-wide policies driven by our large employee populations
respect, and role clarity were rated by employees as especially high. centered in California and New York, two of the most progressive,
employee-forward jurisdictions in the country. At all times, we adhere to
WBD has a dedicated team tasked with formally tracking employee all laws and regulations regarding freedom of association (including
overall employee engagement
turnover. On a monthly basis, turnover data is analyzed, and Section 7 of the National Labor Relations Act), privacy, and equal
favorability score
comprehensive reports are shared with our senior People and Culture employment opportunity.
16
2023
Sustainability
Report
W orkforce Health, Safety, As stated in our Code of Ethics, employees have the
right and the responsibility to stop any work if they feel
and Wellness
their safety is at risk. Employees are trained to notify
their supervisor, People and Culture partner, or S&EA
At WBD, we take our responsibility to provide a safe and immediately about any unsafe equipment or any
healthy workplace for all our employees seriously. We situation that could pose a threat to health or safety.
realize the critical role health and safety plays in the daily
Given the transitory nature of production work, major
lives of all our employees and how key it is to our Guiding
studios across the industry collaborated to develop a
Principles. Employees who are confident in their safety
standardized training program for union production
and health are free to unleash their full potential and
employees. Celebrating its 20th anniversary in 2023,
creative vision to “Empower Storytelling” and “Create
this program is funded by the studios through their
What’s Next.”
collective bargaining agreements and overseen by the
Contract Services Administrative Trust Fund. In
EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND SAFETY Southern California, there are currently dozens of
courses for union production employees on topics such
Ensuring safety is an integral part of everything we
PRETTY LITTLE LIARS: SUMMER SCHOOL as fall protection, aerial work platforms, and
do. The Warner Bros. Department of Safety &
environmental safety, among others, that employees
Environmental Affairs (S&EA) provides occupational
take based on the potential hazards related to their
health and safety and environmental compliance and
work. Crew members on U.S. productions outside
Protecting Human Rights subject-matter expertise to our corporate and
Southern California have access to online and hands-on
production workforce. S&EA works with in-house
safety training provided by an industry management-
departments and productions to create safety
We respect the human rights and dignity of all, including laws labor Training Trust Fund.
guidelines and monitors all Warner Bros. feature and
that promote and protect human rights and prohibit slavery
television-productions worldwide. The S&EA website
and human trafficking. These key principles are incorporated At Warner Bros., a Production Safety Representative
provides a resource for all Warner Bros. productions
in WBD’s Code of Ethics, Business Partner Statement of (PSR) oversees every television and film production, as
and facilities around the world. The website is
Ethics, Production Ethics Code, and Modern Anti-Slavery assigned by the Vice President of Safety &
regularly updated to include new safety, health, and
Policy, which are posted on our website. Our workplace Environmental Affairs. PSRs review scripts as
environmental compliance policies and information.
policies and practices include equal opportunity, non- necessary, provide guidance on stunt and special
discrimination, and prohibitions against forced labor and effects activity, arrange additional safety training, and,
At WBD, employees are responsible for acting in a way
human trafficking. when necessary, safety equipment. They also advise on
that protects themselves and others. Our employees
remediation of potential hazards, such as lead paint,
We encourage our employees and external stakeholders to are trained to know that situations that may pose a
asbestos, and engineering issues, as well as conduct a
report any suspicion or evidence of human rights abuses in health, safety, or environmental hazard should be
detailed safety orientation at the start of every
our operations or in the operations of our suppliers to the reported immediately, without fear of reprisal.
production. If an accident happens during production,
People and Culture team or to our Ethics Hotline.
17
2023
Sustainability
Report
the set medic or the employee’s supervisor will complete Promoting a Respectful
an Accident Investigation report. Employees can also call
Workplace
the Anonymous Safety Hotline to report concerns.
SAY YES TO THE PROM
The Warner Bros. Vice President of S&EA and the Executive
WBD is dedicated to providing a work environment
Director of S&EA participate in a monthly Joint Labor
free from discrimination and harassment and in
Management Safety Committee meeting with union and
which employees and the non-employee workforce are
management representatives active in industry health and
treated with respect and dignity. We do not tolerate
safety. Additionally, representatives from the senior
harassment or other abusive behavior; any unwelcome
management team and the First Aid, Workers’
conduct is unacceptable.
Compensation, and Human Resources departments
participate in monthly injury-trend analysis meetings in It is the responsibility of each manager to ensure
which they discuss the previous month’s injuries or claims implementation of our policies to avoid any discrimination
and any remedial actions necessary, such as additional or harassment in employment. The Code of Ethics and
refresher trainings or process reviews. Equal Employment Opportunity Policy, posted on our
website, outline our framework to report legal or
ethical concerns. In accordance with our Anti-Harassment
MENTAL HEALTH AND WELL-BEING
and Anti-Discrimination Policy, if an employee believes that
We are proud to provide employees with leading tools and they have been harassed, discriminated against, or subject
resources to support their mental well-being. WBD’s to retaliation by a fellow employee or member of our
Employee Assistance Program (EAP) provides confidential extended workforce, agent, client, vendor, or customer of
assessment, referral, and short-term counseling to help WBD, in violation of the foregoing policies, or if they are
employees and eligible dependents across the globe aware of such harassment, discrimination, or retaliation
successfully cope with life’s challenges and personal against others, they must immediately report such
concerns. The EAP administrators provide 24/7 access to conduct to their manager, department head, People and
free, confidential support. In the U.K., mental health Culture representative, or to the WBD Legal Department.
services are offered to all eligible employees and those The Company takes seriously allegations of misconduct
involved in productions on-site. and initiates investigations. All employees are expected to
fully cooperate with internal and external investigations,
We also have on-site wellness centers in our offices in New audits, and other inquiries that are conducted by or on
York, Los Angeles, Atlanta, and London and fully equipped behalf of the Company. (See Governance — Ethics Hotline
fitness centers in our offices in New York, Los Angeles, and section for more information on how employees can report
Atlanta, as well as at Warner Bros. Studios Leavesden. ethics concerns, including through our Ethics Hotline.)
18
2023
Sustainability
Report
Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion
Delivering on one of our Guiding Principles to “Champion America, Europe, Latin America (LATAM), and Asia-
Inclusion,” WBD seeks to amplify the voices of global Pacific (APAC). The designated leads for each region
ABBOTT ELEMENTARY
storytellers to reflect and represent our audiences focus on partnering with internal and external
around the world. Our DEI objective is to promote stakeholders to address DEI efforts across all brands
AVAILABLE ON
diversity, remove barriers, and create space for all to and business units within the region. They are tasked
share ideas and be heard.
with building on the strong foundation of both legacy
companies to develop initiatives that drive long-term
Creating a culture of equity, inclusion, and belonging is
value both locally and worldwide in coordination with our
imperative to our Company’s success. Through
central strategy team. Together, these teams impact
embracing and empowering our talented, diverse
three key focus areas: Workforce & Strategy, Pipeline &
workforce and creative teams, we seek to remove
Programs, and Content & Production. These teams also
barriers to opportunity, open access to our industry at
work closely with the WBD’s two DEI councils: Global
all levels, and make a positive impact in the communities
Business Council and Creative Diversity Council.
in which we live and work by harnessing our power as a
media company.
In the past year, to build on established DEI training,
the Company provided digital and in-person learning
WBD’s robust Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion (DEI) program is
overseen by our Chief Global Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion programs for all employees that included DEI
Officer. In July 2023, we reorganized our DEI Senior lexicon and frameworks. All new employees receive
Leadership team by moving WBD executives into new roles, mandatory DEI training. Additionally, bespoke workshops
including our Group Vice President (GVP), DEI North and training customized to specific needs and groups
America, who oversees DEI employee initiatives across are available.
North America; the GVP of DEI International; and VP of DEI
Workforce and Strategy. Learn more about how we are continuing our diversity,
equity, and inclusion journey in our Diversity Equity
Under our Chief Global Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion Inclusion 2023 Report.
Officer, there is a leadership team for the DEI group that
focuses on all regions and their unique challenges: North
19
2023
Sustainability
Report
DEI BUILDING BLOCKS DEI PILLARS
Our DEI
Vision &
Mission
Intentionally Inclusive Pursuing Equity Authentic Storytelling
& Inclusive Productions
We believe DEI is We are committed to
Our vision is to empower our everyone’s responsibility. equity throughout the We prioritize responsible
workforce and storytellers to employee lifecycle. representation in our content.
Our leaders and employees
help shape an inclusive and
foster a culture of inclusion Our policies and processes Our productions promote
equitable world for all.
and belonging. support DEI progress. access, equity, and
psychological safety.
Our mission is to create a
culture of equity and
inclusion that removes
SIX DEI INITIATIVES
barriers to opportunity and
opens access to our industry
DEI Learning — Inclusion
at all levels. Creative and Business Councils Pipeline Programs
Journey for Executives
Business Resource Groups DEI Global Data Gathering Content Inclusion Framework
20
2023
Sustainability
Report
WE’RE HERE
CREATIVE AND BUSINESS COUNCILS
We believe that we need to champion Examples include:
inclusion from the top. Through our
SORT OF
Business and Creative Councils, which are The LIFT Program
made up of members of our senior
A professional development opportunity
leadership team, we create accountability
for mid-level employees of color and/or
and progress across all areas of our
women in the U.S. and the U.K. The
business. The Councils provide rigor
program, which has 50 mentors and 50
around our DEI strategy by expanding
mentees annually, addresses
governance and oversight of diversity
underrepresentation of these groups.
efforts, as well as helping communicate
our DEI progress company-wide and
Connected Conversations
celebrating our successes.
A series created in 2019 for employees
The Business Council guides the across WBD’s News and Sports brands to
corporate and operational aspects of our promote an inclusive space for perspectives
DEI strategy. They develop and and ideas about current topics.
implement inclusive initiatives that foster
a culture of value and empowerment for
CNN International Diversity Council
all employees.
A council of employees and leaders from
The Creative Council is composed of senior CNN International, CNN Digital, and CNN
leaders from across the creative business International Commercial working to
of WBD and seamlessly integrates DEI strengthen editorial content, build on
principles into the creative and production employee engagement and workplace
process. They use their insights to support culture, and improve representation.
diverse storytelling and representation,
empowering storytellers to amplify
WBD Sports’ The People Advisory Council
underrepresented voices and create
(PAC)
content that resonates with everyone.
An award-winning internal organization
We have also developed internal programs focused on making a positive impact on
within different business units of the diversity, equity, inclusion, and belonging.
Company dedicated to advancing diversity The PAC offers programs to develop
and inclusion. employees and underserved communities.
21
2023
Sustainability
Report
PIPELINE PROGRAMS
Our efforts to make diverse stories created by diverse voices are fueled by our increased
investment in pipeline programs. In 2023, we focused on expanding the scope of global and
regional programs for underrepresented creatives, which includes greater emphasis on
training and placement in the WBD ecosystem.
Our initiatives include:
Talent Acquisition Diversity Outreach: Our Talent Acquisition Diversity Outreach team was
established with the primary responsibility of recruiting diverse talent and building diverse
talent pools. We utilize strategic partnerships across core functional areas, as well as
in-house initiatives designed to attract underrepresented talent communities.
Investments in Tools and Technologies: We invest in a number of diversity-focused
technologies, providing access to diverse talent databases and allowing us to further
optimize our diverse talent pools.
Implement Selection and Assessment Processes: Our selection and assessment
process is designed to eliminate bias throughout the recruitment process in a number
of ways:
• Required Interview and Feedback Training: For all interviewers, covering the end-to-end
WBD recruiting process and inclusive hiring philosophy: “The Hiring Playbook Simplified.”
• Standardized Recruiting Loops: Assessing candidates across a range of competencies
aligned with the functional requirements of the role, as well as alignment with our Guiding
Principles (core values).
• “Blind” Debriefs: Unbiased feedback sessions in which assessors are required to submit
written candidate feedback and a recommendation for hire or no hire ahead of a formal
debrief to avoid unintended influence from other interviewers.
• Offers are extended based on aggregate feedback and recommendations.
22
2023
Sustainability
Report
TALENT ACQUISITION DIVERSITY OUTREACH
One of the ways we build diversity in our entry-level candidate pipeline is through our corporate internship program. We
form targeted partnerships with transformative industry partners in the U.S. and the U.K., including those partnering with
Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) and Hispanic-Serving Institutions (HSIs), as well as organizations
supporting young people of color, women, members of the LGBTQ+ community, and people with disabilities.
Through best-in-class talent development
programs, mentorship, placement opportunities,
Key partners include: WBD Employer Brand Social Strategy “Life @WBD” and industry exposure, WBD Access serves as a
powerful conduit connecting underrepresented
The Emma Bowen Foundation, T. Howard Foundation, Through WBD’s social and content ecosystem, the
talent (including directors, writers, producers, and
Hispanic Scholarship Foundation, Academy Gold, The Company shares authentic employee experiences with
digital creators) to content and brands.
Posse Foundation, Prep for Prep, Ladders for Leaders, potential candidates by highlighting what is unique and
BroadFutures, Entertainment Industry College Outreach differentiated with “Life @WBD.”
Through this initiative, WBD teams have built
Program (HBCU In: LA, ATL, NYC), AnitaB.org, Media Trust,
meaningful partnerships with schools, festivals,
MyGWork, Employability, Kick It Out, ReelWorks/
Diversity Outreach Through Creative Programs and nonprofit organizations to deepen the
MediaMKRS, Rewriting the Code, CodePath, and The
Company’s reach into underrepresented
WBD invested in an expansive range of creative programs
Center for Communication. communities, extend program offerings, and
to discover and engage underrepresented talent, such as:
further support partners’ programming.
WBD leaders and teams partner with organizations that
• Curatorial Programming Fellowship (Canada)
enhance our talent pipeline initiatives through board In March 2023, WBD Access rebranded and
• Animated Shorts Program
service and other engagements. Examples of our talent expanded the Access Directors Program to
pipeline partnerships and initiatives, as well as ways we • Black Britain Unspoken cultivate underrepresented and emerging talent,
reach diverse talent are: now led by WBD’s DEI team. To equip participants
• Rocksteady Games Academy
with skills and experience needed to succeed in the
• Black Brazil Unspoken industry, the program provides opportunities to
Early Careers Homegrown Sourcing Events
direct a full WBD television episode, work on WBD
• Latin America Cartoon Network Animation Program
During our award-winning internship program, WBD hosted productions, and participate in a virtual curriculum
840 students globally in 2023 and arranged 10 homegrown focused on best practices and equity mindset.
sourcing events featuring live and bespoke activities, such
as Pathways to WBD, which invites students from our Visit the WBD Access website to learn more.
partnership organizations into our offices in New York City,
Los Angeles, and Atlanta for an afternoon of networking
and an executive speaker.
23
2023
Sustainability
Report
INVESTMENTS IN TOOLS AND TECHNOLOGIES
WBD collects data related to DEI trends, which is analyzed
THE SEX LIVES OF COLLEGE GIRLS
by leadership team members on a quarterly basis. This
proactive approach allows the Company to assess DEI
trends at every step of the recruitment process, as well as
in the engagement and retention strategy.
DEI LEARNING — INCLUSION JOURNEY FOR
EXECUTIVES
In 2023, we introduced an impactful 12-month journey for
our top leaders, consisting of 40 hours of immersive
leadership training. The program consists of four modules:
Finding My Why for DEI, Inclusive Leadership in Action,
Leveraging DEI to Create Business Value, and
Operationalizing DEI in Everything We Do. Through this
initiative, which also includes Leading Inclusively Toolkits
and a Leading Inclusively Playbook to institute best
practices, we are not only shaping our leadership but also
paving the way for a more inclusive industry.
40 hours
of immersive leadership training is provided through
our Inclusion Journey for Executives, empowering
leaders to excel in their professional journeys and
drive impactful change.
24
2023
Sustainability
Report
BUSINESS RESOURCE GROUPS
Business Resource Groups (BRGs) are an important part of WBD’s inclusion strategies focused on career, culture, community, and creating connections across the business. These
voluntary, employee-led groups unite colleagues on the basis of common characteristics, life experiences, purpose, and interests, and they foster a diverse workplace and inclusive culture.
Representing veterans, ethnic minorities, women, members of the LGBTQ+ community, and more, the BRGs build community, drive authentic inclusion, provide professional development
opportunities, and engage employees globally.
As of December 2023, 16 BRGs across the globe include approximately 6,300 members and provide support in our local regions where we have offices globally.
Ascend Being BOLD Core
Network of professionals who develop Committed to promoting inclusivity Black Outstanding Leaders Network administrative
community, grow professionally, and across cultures, showcasing Delivering represents the professionals who are the central
build bridges across generational and underrepresented voices, insights, Black community from across support structure for the Company,
departmental divides. and stories. the African diaspora within with focus on personal and
the Company. professional growth.
DiverseAbilities Faith and Belief GoGreen Honor
Community for people with visible and A community that welcomes and A network of change makers who Active duty and military veteran
non-apparent disabilities advocating connects colleagues of all faiths, focus their efforts on environmental employees, their spouses, and
for positive representation within the spiritual traditions, and non-religious awareness, sustainability, and global family members, who support each
workplace and through our content to beliefs to celebrate and learn more climate education. other through shared experiences
eliminate stigmas. about each of them.. and values.
IndigeNext Lingo Pride TechKnow
Uniting Indigenous employees and allies Connecting employees through Uniting LGBTQ+ employees and allies, Inspiring tech enthusiasts in media
to celebrate, learn, and promote language learning, cultural fostering inclusion, support, and and entertainment through events,
authentic representation globally. exchange, and fostering inclusive advocacy within the workplace. education, and partnerships.
communication worldwide.
Vibras Village WAVE WOW
Empowering Hispanic-Latino/a/x Inclusive network supporting working Warner Asian Voices Elevated Women of WBD is an inclusive
diaspora through community parents, caregivers, and families, celebrates Asian diversity, community empowering women in
connection, career development, promoting workplace flexibility and fostering cross-cultural media through collaboration, support,
and innovation. community empowerment. awareness, and promoting and equality initiatives.
equality through engagement.
25
2023
Sustainability
Report
Our Global Team
GLOBAL GENDER REPRESENTATION U.S. RACE/ETHNICITY REPRESENTATION
Other | 4.8%
Asian | 13.1%
Hispanic/Latinx |
White | 11.8%
Men Women 55.9%
53.1% 46.6% Black/African
American | 11.7%
Not Declared | 2.6%
Women Men Not Declared Asian Hispanic/Latinx Black/African American
Not Declared White Other
Executive Executive
38.5% 61.5% | 83
Leadership Leadership
Senior Leadership 47.5% | 844 52.5% | 933 Senior Leadership
Management 45.8% | 5,036 54% | 5,940 Management
Non-Management 47% | 9,008 52.6% | 10,072 Non-Management
Executive: EVP+ | Leadership: VP & SVP | Management: Manager and Director | Non Note: Other Person of Color/Two or More: Middle Eastern, North African, Native American
Management: Individual Contributor or Alaska Native, Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander, Two or More Races
Date as of December 31, 2023. Figures may not sum due to rounding. Date as of December 31, 2023. Figures may not sum due to rounding.
Refer to our EEO-1 reports on our website, reflecting the company’s U.S. workforce as of
December 31 of the most recent year that is available.
JERROD CARMICHAEL: ROTHANIEL
26
2023
Sustainability
Report
| 52
CONTENT INCLUSION FRAMEWORK
TVN DEI INITIATIVES
We strive to ensure our content advances forms, general DEI learning, and request
the inclusion of underrepresented forms for workshops and more bespoke
communities and diverse voices and trainings. Content advisement is
TVN, a subsidiary of WBD, operates television channels and services in Poland and
perspectives so that it resonates with centralized on the site, allowing WBD
has established a number of initiatives to encourage inclusive storytelling:
increasingly diverse and global audiences. producers, partners, and executives alike
We know that our content also has the to request help if they have a concern TVN24 “Diversity Tracker”: Initiative to increase the representation of women
power to address important social issues, about a script, a cut, or a casting among guests on TVN24 programs. Since 2019, the percentage of female guests
so we seek to have a positive social impact breakdown and to quickly find the has increased from 20–25% to 35–40%, surpassing the world average and
where it is appropriate and possible, and assistance they need. The website exceeding other news outlets in Poland. In 2022, this project received the Diversity
we work to maintain our viewers’ trust by centralizes DEI resources for Charter award from the Responsible Business Forum in the “DEI in Business”
exploring the issues and experiences that productions, resulting in accessibility and category under the “Innovative Approach” subcategory.
shape their worlds. more inclusive storytelling.
Mental Health Awareness: TVN24 received the Beautiful Brain Award from the
National Consultant in Psychiatry in 2023 for its efforts to address mental health
We believe authentic stories, as well as
ethnic and gender representation on our PAY EQUITY and their guidelines on coverage of stories about suicides, depression, and mental
health issues.
productions, is key to helping create
As WBD, we are taking the opportunity,
more inclusive content. In January 2024,
as part of our integration, to review Representation of Persons with Disabilities: TVN24 regularly covers stories about
WBD launched a website dedicated to
our policies, processes, and persons with disabilities by organizing broadcasted debates and preparing in-
supporting diverse, equitable, and
compensation structure to ensure depth reports and live programs about different aspects of living with a disability.
inclusive storytelling. The Inclusive
they are robust and promote fair and Persons with disabilities are not only subjects of current reporting but also are
Storytelling Guide serves as a digital hub
equitable compensation practices. invited as experts in various fields.
for DEI resources that is available to all
Through ongoing assessments and a
internal creatives and creative partners commitment to continuous improvement, Neurodiversity: TVN produced the Polish version of The A Talks, the groundbreaking
to enable a proactive approach to we foster an environment in which all French format featuring 50 individuals living on the autism spectrum trying their hand
content inclusion. The site also features at journalism and interviewing well-known personalities. The Polish title Autentyczni
employees are recognized and rewarded
regional pages with localized, topical (The Authentic) was aired in primetime in November and was very well-received by the
equitably for their contributions and
resources, such as inclusive hiring audience. The program’s launch was also accompanied by a social autism spectrum
expertise. One of our annual assessments
practices for writers’ rooms and disorder–awareness campaign.
includes reporting on the gender pay gap
productions crews, downloadable in the United Kingdom. For more
character and stereotype guides to help LGBTQ+: TVN24 is the only leading news channel in Poland that regularly addresses
information, see the U.K. Gender Pay Gap
with scripts, pronoun identification the challenges faced by the LGBTQ+ community. This includes the multi-awarded
Reports on our website.
documentary All About My Child, a story about transgender children from the
perspective of their parents.
27
2023
Sustainability
Report
Our
Community
WBD is committed to positively impacting communities around
the world. We use our platforms and content, as well as work
with nonprofit partners, to nurture positive change one bold
story at a time.
WBD has a team dedicated to global social impact that develops
consumer- and employee-facing initiatives and campaigns, as well
as skills-training programs to make an impact in the communities in
which we live and work. In partnership with key nonprofit partners
around the world, we advocate for action on the issues that are
important to our customers, affiliates, and employees and provide
critical resources to communities around the world.
WBD DAY OF SERVICE
28
2023
Sustainability
Report
29
2023
Sustainability
Report
Using Our Platform to Further Philanthropic Impact
By investing in our communities through corporate grantmaking and philanthropic giving, we aim to build community, empower storytelling,
and amplify the WBD brand and mission.
EMPLOYEE-FACING CAMPAIGNS
Our employee engagement efforts help to enhance culture, connection, and community by integrating social impact and purpose into the
employee experience. These initiatives allow employees to give back in their own ways, providing variety and flexibility in our offerings to
In 2023, WBD employees
enable employees to support the causes that matter most to them.
completed
• Donation Matching and Volunteer Rewards: Eligible employees enjoy an • Season of Giving: Through our annual holiday program,
41,488 annual company match of up to $1,000 USD (or local currency rate) for we offer a variety of gift-giving opportunities and volunteer
the registered charities of their choice through their personal donations projects to employees in offices around the world. More than 16,700
($-for-$) and/or volunteerism ($10/hour for every hour volunteered). employees participated in our 2023 Season of Giving campaign,
volunteer hours and supporting 5,200 charities and donating 3,000 gifts to children and
• Emergency Response: In response to disasters and crises, we
supported... families in need.
launch special campaigns that highlight and support organizations
on the ground responding with giving opportunities and special • #GivingTuesday Holiday Giving: To kick off the holiday season in a way
matching incentives. true to our purpose-driven culture, on #GivingTuesday, employees
globally receive donatable funds in their Giving Accounts on the WBD
7,343 • Volunteer Time Off: Eligible employees can use up to 40 hours each
Impact Portal.
year of paid volunteer time during regular work hours to volunteer
with a registered charity or accredited school through our global • Say Yes to the Prom: This initiative gives more than 1,000 high-school
causes and organizations Volunteer Time Off Policy. students across the U.S. the perfect prom look, as well as mentorship
opportunities. Employees in select cities volunteer for the in-person
through employee giving • Seasonal Volunteering Opportunities: WBD offers employees
events. In 2023, the Say Yes to the Prom Tour returned for its 12th year
and volunteerism. various volunteer and engagement opportunities throughout the
in Atlanta and Los Angeles.
year to recognize key service holidays and initiatives (e.g., Earth Day,
Martin Luther King, Jr. Day).
DAY OF SERVICE
During WBD’s annual Day of Service, employees volunteer in communities in which they live and work around the
world. The 2023 Day of Service was held in October with more than 3,700 employees across 31 countries taking part,
spending more than 10,000 hours volunteering with 625 projects. Of the Company-organized projects, 9 in the U.S.
and 17 projects outside the U.S. had an environmental focus. Examples of our Company-organized projects include:
BlueSkyLA: A tree-planting event aimed at improving Children’s Memorial Health Institute (Centrum
the air quality of Los Angeles was held in advance of Zdrowia Dziecka): In Poland, employees spent the day
the 2028 Olympics. in the hospital, repainting rooms in the pediatric ward,
as well as gardening, cleaning the playground, and
Earthgonomic: Employees installed pollinator organizing drawing workshops for younger patients.
gardens at an under-resourced school in Mexico City.
National Museum of Marine Science and Technology:
Rise Against Hunger: Employees in Atlanta, Los A beach cleanup and coral reef restoration event was
Angeles, and New York assembled and packaged held in Taipei.
meals to address food insecurity.
SOCIAL IMPACT CAMPAIGNS
Make-a-Wish: In India, five WBD locations took part in
Atados: In Brazil, employees mentored students from Day of Service activities, opening their doors to young To build brand affinity and impact, we create global-cause
low-income backgrounds, providing inspiration on patients for a day of fun and play at our offices. marketing campaigns, aligning WBD content, programming, and IP
career choices, advice on how to prepare themselves to social issues and NGOs providing critical resources to
for the workplace, and tips for professional success. Young Storytellers: Employees in Los Angeles communities around the world.
facilitated a “Day of Story” storytelling workshop for
Medshare: Employees in Atlanta and New York students at an underserved elementary school. Girls Empowerment: We cocreated a Barbie campaign with Save
assembled and packaged clean birthing kits to help the Children and Mattel that also leveraged HGTV’s Barbie
mothers and babies in medically underserved Create-A-Project: Employees worldwide opted to programming. We raised funds for Save the Children’s Girls
communities around the world. Create-A-Project on their own with a focus on Empowerment Programming and garnered more than two billion
“Protecting the Planet.” earned media impressions, including a Variety exclusive, and
delivered more than 100 million impressions via the partner’s and
WBD’s owned media.
Hunger: In partnership with Share Our Strength, via its No Kid
MISSION-DRIVEN BANK FUND
Hungry campaign, we cocreated a multi-platform campaign for
WBD joined the Mission-Driven Bank Fund as a founding investor. The fund seeks to close the Wonka that leveraged the film’s programming to raise funds to help
racial wealth and income gap by expanding financial access and creating a more inclusive end childhood hunger, generating more than 1.3 million meals for
kids in need. The campaign also garnered more than 100 million
banking system.
impressions via WBD’s and Share Our Strength’s media platforms.
30
2023
Sustainability
Report
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Pillars
Our social impact efforts are guided by our CSR pillars:
Helping Vulnerable Communities | Creating Career Pathways | Protecting the Planet
CSR PILLAR: HELPING VULNERABLE COMMUNITIES
WBD is committed to building a brighter future for vulnerable communities with the greatest needs. Areas of focus and examples of
impact include:
Hunger: Through our partner Share Our Strength’s No Kid CNN Impact Your World: “Impact Your World” is a CNN
Hungry campaign, we helped provide meals to children living multiplatform initiative that provides the audience opportunities to
with hunger through brand campaigns with WBD content, aid communities around the world. In times of tragedy and
including Shazam! Fury of the Gods, The Match, Rock the Block, trauma, people want to help, and CNN’s “Impact Your World” is a
Brother vs. Brother, and The Jennifer Hudson Show. Over the trusted outlet providing ways to take positive action through
course of our five-year support of No Kid Hungry, more than donations or volunteering with vetted charities. The initiative also
two billion nutritious meals have been delivered to children in features ordinary people and celebrities who are rolling up their
communities across the U.S. sleeves and making a difference for causes close to their hearts.
Mental Health: We launched a centralized mental health hub, Emergency Response Campaigns: We supported communities
Where to Turn, to support relevant WBD network and platform in need following natural disasters in Turkey, Syria, and Hawaii
content while providing viewers with resources to use if they are by providing funding to and amplifying donation campaigns for
experiencing mental health difficulties, self-harm, domestic our nonprofit partners, including Save the Children and
violence, substance abuse, or bullying. International Rescue Committee.
THE A TALKS
31
2023
Sustainability
Report
CSR PILLAR: CREATING CAREER PATHWAYS TVN
At WBD, we provide essential-skills training, education, and job opportunities to build career
pathways into the entertainment industry for people of all backgrounds.
WBD Access to Action: This program SKILLS JAM Docuseries: WBD
provides individuals who have not partnered with Skilled Careers
traditionally had pathways into the Coalition, IGN Entertainment, and
entertainment industry with access to SkillsUSA to produce a new docuseries
technical and crafts jobs and training called SKILLS JAM, designed to help
opportunities on film and television change perceptions around skilled-
productions. Candidates are sourced trades careers. SKILLS JAM chronicles
from local nonprofits in areas where the journey of five high school teams
productions take place in order to support vying for a championship win at the
local infrastructure. 2023 SkillsUSA National Leadership &
Skills Conference. The docuseries is
CNN Academy: CNN Academy taps into intended to inspire and engage young
the knowledge and expertise earned by people in skilled-trades careers and,
CNN’s 40-plus years at the forefront of ultimately, close the widening skills gap
international journalism, providing skills in the sector.
and training to empower the next
generation of global journalists. In Film and TV Career Days: We
December 2023, the second annual CNN produced Careers Days in the U.K.,
Academy simulation was delivered in Abu aligned with the global releases of
TVN Foundation: TVN — the leading broadcaster in Poland, owned by WBD — is
Dhabi against the backdrop of COP28, Barbie and Wonka. Supported by
deeply committed to inciting positive transformations and bolstering vulnerable
welcoming 110 participants representing industry talent and including pre-
communities. In 2001, it introduced the TVN Foundation, an institution devoted to
34 nationalities for a week of interactive release movie screenings, both events
assisting individuals and communities in need. The TVN Foundation has raised
workshops, field trips, simulated welcomed more than 150 young
over $70 million in aid to elevate the living standards and health conditions of
interviews, and press conferences and people for workshops and panels to
Poles, extending aid to almost 26,000 individuals. A significant priority for the talks from some of CNN’s leading on-air help inform and demystify career
TVN Foundation is the medical treatment and rehabilitation of gravely ill
and behind-the-scenes talent. opportunities behind the scenes.
children. The Foundation also undertakes renovations and construction
assignments in medical centers across the country, as well as the purchase of
ambulances and medical equipment. In the recent past, the Foundation’s aid
operations have also zeroed in on the mental health of children and adolescents
in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic.
32
2023
Sustainability
Report
CREWHQ
We are making major strides to address skills shortages in film and television production, including
launching a first-of-its-kind training and education center at Warner Bros. Studios Leavesden in the U.K. in
June 2023. CrewHQ is an on-site training center designed to support existing crew, create career pathways
for people of all backgrounds, and foster the next generation of talent. A dedicated team of industry
professionals delivers activities focused on U.K. below-the-line crew serving WBD films and high-end TV
divisions including Warner Bros. Pictures, Warner Bros. Television, and HBO. Our aim is to develop talent,
retain crew, and create a diverse, skilled workforce using our studio facility, support services, and WBD
productions to establish a unique sustainable pathway. 2023 highlights include:
Delivered training to support House of the Dragon Worked with RADA (Royal Academy of Dramatic Arts)
Season 2 in Wales, with more than 130 local people to deliver a bespoke training program to empower
participating in training activities across women in mid-level roles to step up to next level.
various programs.
Delivered a Barbie Career Day at BAFTA for more Partnered with BFI on their 2023 Future Film Festival,
than 150 young people, featuring workshops and panel running careers workshops and online sessions for
discussions to inform and demystify career young people in-person and online.
opportunities behind the scenes.
Visit the WBD CrewHQ website to learn more.
CREWHQ
33
2023
Sustainability
Report
CSR Pillar: Protecting the Planet
WBD is committed to protecting the environment through social-impact initiatives.
We believe that every action counts and can lead to a healthier planet for all.
WBD 2023 Earth Day Campaign Encore
The goal of our Earth Day campaign was to empower Through its Encore program, WBD companies and
employees to take action in their own lives to make a productions have been donating food and surplus
positive impact on the environment. In preparation for materials to local community nonprofits in locations
the day, we launched a communications campaign where we operate for over 25 years.
directed toward employees that included launching an
For example, in conjunction with HBO’s limited series
internal sustainability webpage highlighting WBD
The Regime, WBD’s production team focused on circular
sustainability efforts, eco-tips, resources, and
economy principles for production materials via
environmental content.
redistribution to more than 20 different charitable
We hosted 12 in-person volunteer events across 10 organizations, diverted over 30 tons of food waste from
major global cities for employees, with 1,300 employee landfills, and made tremendous community impact,
volunteers completing more than 3,000 volunteer including a real-world reforestation project that funded the
hours. WBD was responsible for helping plant 3,500 planting of nearly 17,500 trees. To support emergency efforts
trees and collecting 200 pounds of trash. following the 7.8 magnitude earthquake in Turkey and Syria
that occurred during production, the production team also
created a fundraiser collecting more than £10,000.
34
2023
Sustainability
Report
WBD is committed to identifying and integrating
environmentally sustainable practices to support
a more competitive business and a healthier
environment for our employees, consumers,
and communities.
35
2023
Sustainability
Report
Environmental Management HOUSE OF THE DRAGON
We prioritize efforts to minimize environmental impacts across our workplaces and productions. We focus on
green buildings, reducing emissions, increasing energy efficiency and renewable energy, reducing waste, and
managing water.
The WBD Board provides oversight of ESG activities, More broadly, our global, employee-led GoGreen Business
including climate-related issues, through the Nominating Resource Group fosters environmental awareness and
and Corporate Governance Committee and Audit sustainability and global climate education across the
Committee. Our EVP, Global Head of ESG, leads our Company. In 2023, our 10 GoGreen chapters produced
environmental strategy with support from our ESG/CSR employee engagement and education initiatives, such as:
team.
New Zealand Chapter: Increased hybrid
To communicate and drive environmental action among fleet vehicles by changing the fleet at
our employees, we provide information on our internal three New Zealand sites from petrol and
sustainability webpage. We share tips for how employees diesel to plug-in hybrid electric vehicles
can reduce their environmental impact, compost and (PHEVs). By the end of 2023, there were 20
dispose of waste properly, promote local environmental new hybrid cars and 9 remaining legacy
events that employees can get involved in, and highlight petrol and diesel vehicles.
CNN’s “Life, But Greener” website, which provides
information that inspires and challenges people to lead
Dubai Chapter: Partnered with
more sustainable lives. Warner Bros. Studios Leavesden
Emirates Environmental Group (EEG) to
distributes a dedicated sustainability newsletter internally
participate in environmental initiatives at
while also providing mandatory training to raise awareness
the local level, including the EEG’s “Clean
of sustainability measures that staff can adopt. Given the
UAE Campaign.”
transitory nature of media-production work and in an
effort to keep employees safe, major studios across the
industry in the U.S., including WBD, collaborate on a
United Kingdom Chapter: Reduced
standardized training program for union production
the use of single-use materials in the
employees, including environmental safety training.
Chiswick office.
2023
Sustainability
Report
36
2023 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS Climate Action
Scope 1 and 2 Emissions WBD recognizes climate change as a critical global issue, and we endeavor to do our part
to drive positive change. As a media company, our impact on this issue is limited. Therefore,
FY 2023 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (MT CO e)
2 we focus our efforts where we have the most significant opportunities for progress,
Scope 11,3 46,443 balanced with investments in a range of critical ESG issues. We are committed to lowering
Scope 2 Location--Based2,3 175,044 our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, investing in clean energy, and telling stories that will
inspire our audiences.
Scope 2 Market--Based2,3 170,355
Total Scope 1 and 2 Location--Based3 221,486 As WBD, we are focused on continuing legacy efforts to actively reduce operational
Total Scope 1 and 2 Market--Based3 216,797 emissions, identifying and implementing new initiatives (see Sustainable Workplaces and
Sustainable Productions), while simultaneously building a longer-term, enterprise-level
strategy for our future as a new organization.
Scope 3 Emissions Breakdown4
FY 2023 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (MT CO e)
2
MEASURING AND MANAGING OUR CLIMATE IMPACT
Categories 1 & 2: Purchased Goods
1,341,464
and Services & Capital Goods 5
Throughout 2023, we worked with a third-party consultant to advise on risks and
Category 3: Fuel- and Energy--Related Activities 64,345 opportunities. Key activities included conducting benchmarking, interviewing internal
stakeholders to gather insights, identifying disclosure opportunities, and recommending
Category 6: Business Travel 31,481
next steps. We established the greenhouse gas emissions inventory for Scope 1 and 2 and
Category 7: Employee Commuting 130,336
five material Scope 3 categories. Additionally, we worked to understand and plan for
Total Scope 3 Emissions 1,567,625 forthcoming climate-related disclosure regulations.
In 2024, we will continue our efforts to reduce emissions, for example, increasing energy
1. The Scope 1 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions inventory has been prepared using the guidance set forth in
the World Resources Institute (WRI)/World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) GHG efficiency and exploring renewable energy projects and the potential purchase of
Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, Revised Edition. Scope 1 represents direct GHG
Renewable Energy Credits (RECs) and carbon offsets, where appropriate. We will also
emissions that occur from sources that are owned or controlled by WBD.
evaluate the opportunity to set enterprise-level GHG emissions reduction goals, supported
2. The Scope 2 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions inventory has been prepared using the guidance set forth in
the World Resources Institute (WRI)/World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) GHG by a roadmap to ensure we can deliver on our commitments.
Protocol Scope 2 Guidance: An amendment to the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting
Standard. Scope 2 accounts for GHG emissions from the generation of purchased electricity, steam,
heating and cooling consumed by WBD. We believe these efforts are important to the ongoing success of our business as a
3. In FY23, 373 productions were included in WBD’s emissions. premier global media and entertainment company.
4. The Scope 3 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions inventory has been prepared using the guidance set forth in
the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard under which a company can choose
which Scope 3 emissions to report.
5. For FY23, WBD reported purchased goods and services and capital goods together, as WBD’s procurement system
includes spend amounts for both categories and spend on capital goods cannot be disaggregated at this time. See Appendix for further details on the calculation and estimation methodologies, inclusions, exclusions, and data.
2023
Sustainability
Report
37
Sustainable Workplaces
WBD models our workplaces for optimal efficiency, health, and sustainability. We encourage employees to innovate and participate in
environmentally friendly practices that promote more sustainable workplaces and more efficient business practices.
EFFICIENT FACILITIES AND GREEN BUILDINGS locations identified in the U.K. where renewable energy was part of
the energy procurement process. This helped to offset 100% of
WBD seeks opportunities to improve the resource-use efficiency of
electricity consumption at these locations, equivalent to nearly
our facilities, including our corporate offices and studios. For
30,000 MWh. In 2023, WBD generated and purchased 44,841 MWh of
example, we have a history of being dedicated to green building
renewable energy in Finland, New Zealand, Poland, the United States,
certifications. We maintain an ongoing membership with the U.S.
and the United Kingdom with 1,035 MWh generated on-site.6, 7, 8
Green Building Council, which provides us with new insights into
green building practices. We currently operate 13 Building Research Across our studios and offices, our Global Real Estate and Facilities
Establishment Environmental Assessment Method (BREEAM)– teams have implemented projects to improve energy performance
certified buildings located in the U.K. We also operate 8 Leadership in leased and owned spaces. These initiatives include lighting
in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED)–certified buildings and 1 projects, HVAC projects, and electric vehicle (EV) charging stations.
WELL-certified building.
Additionally, in 2021, the Warner Bros. Studios Burbank
Transportation group transitioned to 100% renewable diesel (RD),
ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND RENEWABLE ENERGY
made from vegetable oils, animal fats, and waste oils. RD burns
We strive to maximize the efficiency of our operations by working to cleaner, reduces emissions, and has a lower carbon footprint
employ innovative technologies and invest in renewable energy compared to conventional diesel and biodiesel. The group’s entire
projects, where possible, that reduce our emissions and benefit our diesel fleet runs 100% on RD.
environment and business.
REDUCING OUR CARBON FOOTPRINT THROUGH
We have installed on-site solar at our workplaces to reduce our
carbon footprint. In 2022, two on-site solar photovoltaic (PV) SITE CONSOLIDATIONS
projects were completed at our facilities in Poland. Warner Bros.
WBD is in the process of reducing its building portfolio by more than
Studios Burbank has four solar systems installed that equals a
2 million square feet through the implementation of an agile
combined 708 kW size. Additionally, in 2023, there were three
2023
Sustainability
Report
44,841
MWh of renewable energy
generated and purchased in
Finland, New Zealand, Poland,
the United States, and the
United Kingdom 6,7,8
1,035
6. All contractual instruments used in the market-based method (MBM) are in alignment with the GHG Protocol Scope 2 Quality Criteria.
MWh of renewable energy
7. Approximately 1% of renewable energy was estimated by annualizing the actual data provided to account for a full year.
generated on-site 6,7,8
8. For market-based method (MBM) calculations, where contractual instruments and residual mix factors are not available, a grid average emission factor was used, which is based on average
energy generation in a defined geographic location. The use of grid average factors in the MBM may result in double counting of renewable electricity between electricity consumers.
38
workplace strategy that accommodates a flexible work 230 PARK AVENUE SOUTH
schedule for many employees. Global space consolidations
will reduce the Company’s carbon footprint.
Flexible working also leads to a substantial reduction in
employee commuting, which positively impacts the global
carbon footprint.
WASTE REDUCTION
WBD is committed to identifying ways to further reduce
waste in our business operations. Our initiatives to
reduce and divert waste around the globe save
resources and reduce our GHG emissions. We focus on
source reduction; reusing materials, including donating
production materials and other lightly used materials;
recycling materials; and composting organics and
donating leftover food. We are working to reduce single-
use materials and divert waste through recycling and
composting across our studios and offices.
WATER MANAGEMENT
We are committed to identifying ways to reduce water
use in our business operations. For example, at our
Burbank studio, we utilize reclaimed water for our
DRIVING EMISSIONS REDUCTIONS AT OUR GLOBAL HEADQUARTERS IN NEW YORK CITY
landscaping irrigation and cooling towers and are
reducing consumption of reclaimed water by installing Our New York City global headquarters at 230 Park Ave. South achieved LEED Gold–certification and
a water softener for a cooling tower. Additionally, there WELL–certification. The project includes 70% ENERGY STAR–labeled equipment and appliances, at
are stormwater infiltration systems in place that utilize least a 20% reduction of the lighting-power density from efficient light fixtures, 51% energy savings
slow infiltration that allows water to slowly seep into from office equipment selections, and 35% water-use reduction from low-flow fixtures.
the ground.
We also have measures in place to reduce landfill, food, plastic, and other waste at our headquarters.
Our waste reduction programs include a container service, education signage, audits, composting,
and removal of plastic bottles from vending machines and from the café.
2023
Sustainability
Report
39
ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY AT WARNER BROS. STUDIOS LEAVESDEN WARNER BROS. STUDIOS LEAVESDEN
Warner Bros. Studios Leavesden (WBSL) is committed to promoting good sustainability practices, to
reducing the environmental impacts of their activities, and to assisting and encouraging clients and
partners to do the same.
In 2020, WBSL established a Sustainability To reduce GHG emissions on-site, WBSL has:
Action Plan, called The Big Picture, to identify
a set of sustainability initiatives. Key initiatives Nearly completed swapping out LED lighting
include reducing emissions through in all studio areas. By the end of 2023, more
purchasing renewable energy certificates than 96% of the complex is LED-operated. In
and more; improving green spaces to improve some locations, lighting is also motion-
ecology and biodiversity and create spaces sensor–operated.
that the community can enjoy; initiating
Conducted a successful trial for solar-
sustainable resource-management projects;
powered golf buggies and is conducting a
incorporating well-being initiatives; and
trial for a solar-powered solution for electric
raising awareness of sustainability measures
utility vehicles.
through mandatory training and dedicated
communications for staff.
Continued phasing out diesel vehicles.
Five additional electric vehicles have been
In 2023, WBSL was awarded “Very Good”
leased or purchased to replace old diesel
accreditation by the inaugural BAFTA albert’s
stock vehicles.
Studio Sustainability Standard, a voluntary
initiative to support film and TV studios to
Installed electric charging points in the
become zero-carbon, zero-waste facilities
Studio car park and two electric substations
and to help productions in their own
on the studio backlot.
sustainability journeys.
2023
Sustainability
Report
40
100 FOOT WAVE
Sustainable Productions
WBD participates in sustainable practices, where possible, in order to lessen the environmental footprint of our
productions worldwide. We make efforts across our internal productions across five key areas.
Fuel Waste
A focus on enforcing no-idling policies; A focus on reducing solid waste by reusing set
piloting cleantech equipment, like battery- materials throughout production and among
powered generators; using power drops and WBD productions, recycling and composting
grid ties, when possible, on location, avoiding materials, and aiming to avoid single-use or
or reducing diesel generator use; utilizing non-recyclable products on set.
alternative fuels like biodiesel and renewable
diesel; and pursuing electric vehicles to
Electricity
support production.
A focus on reducing electrical demands by
Materials maximizing LED set lighting, powering down
equipment when idle, automating efficiency
A focus on buying sustainable products, such
through timers and programmable thermostats,
as Forest Stewardship Council (FSC)–certified
and utilizing renewable energy when possible.
lumber for sets, compostable products, and
recycled paper, as well as reducing waste by
reusing and donating production materials Reporting
and implementing virtual production practices
A focus on calculating GHG emissions and setting
like electronic document distribution.
environmental key performance indicators to
measure our impact and identify our priority
areas for improvement.
2023
Sustainability
Report
41
INDUSTRY ENGAGEMENT AND RECOGNITION screen were also intentional, including reducing
consumption of red meat, donating materials, and
WBD is a member of the Sustainable Production Alliance
eliminating plastic water bottles.
(SPA), a consortium of the world’s leading film, television,
and streaming companies dedicated to advancing
Additionally, the production team for WBD’s 2023 film
sustainability initiatives. We are also a member of albert,
Barbie made efforts to incorporate sustainability
a U.K.-based, BAFTA-owned organization dedicated to
throughout the project. To reduce reliance on generators,
empowering the industry to create content that
approximately 85% of all power used during the U.K. shoot
supports a vision for a sustainable future and enabling
came from house power and the vast majority of this was
the industry to make positive contributions to the
used at Warner Bros. Studio Leavesden, which operates on
environment. Consistent with local production
a 100% renewable energy tariff. Further, production used
requirements, all WBD U.K.- and Ireland-commissioned
many items that were handed down from other
productions are asked to use the albert tools and
productions and were donated to various sources once
methodologies to reduce their carbon footprint. they were at the end of their useful life within the industry.
For instance, rigging silks that could not be used by
We are also a contributor to the Green Production Guide, a
Electrical any longer were donated to schools and art
set of tools and resources established in 2010 to help reduce
projects. The majority of costumes were purchased
our industry’s carbon footprint and environmental impact.
second hand and then returned to charity shops for resale.
Production also donated personal protective equipment
TRUE DETECTIVE: NIGHT COUNTRY
(PPE) that could no longer be used on production to
EMBRACING SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTION
support refugees fleeing Ukraine.
True Detective: Night Country is an HBO original starring *Does not include emissions from air travel.
Jodie Foster and Kali Reis that aired in January 2024 and
ENVIRONMENTAL MEDIA ASSOCIATION (EMA)
addresses pollution, climate justice, and climate research.
ENVIRONMENTAL STORYTELLING AND CONTENT
The show benefited from shooting in Iceland, which boasts
In 2023, WBD productions received a total of 40
EMA Green Seals, with 28 of those receiving the a 100% clean energy grid. At the end of production, 76% of Stories with environmentally-focused subject matter
Gold Seal distinction, a higher tier recognition for power came from the grid with virtually no emissions, while educate and inform audiences, encourage positive
productions that have implemented a greater 15% of all emissions was from diesel generators.* After behaviors, and provide inspiration on topics such as the
number of green production practices. The EMA wrap, the production offset its emissions (calculated using climate and sustainability. Our environmental content
Green Seal is a recognition program honoring the industry-standard PEAR tool) by contributing to an ranges from inspiring documentaries and docuseries, like
progress in sustainable production for movies, avoided nature loss project based in Alaska. In addition, the CNN’s Call to Earth and Discovery Channel’s Serengeti, to
television shows, filmed commercials, and print production team made other efforts to use alternatives to scripted content and sports. No matter how big or small
advertising. Additionally, WBD received six EMA fossil fuels during production, including the use of 40 the message may be, we aim to incorporate
Award nominations and two awards for electric vehicles, including a few on-screen, and the use of environmentally-conscious themes in our stories that leave
environmental storylines. a battery-electric generator. Sustainable behaviors off- lasting effects on audiences.
2023
Sustainability
Report
42
TVN’s co-production Until the Last Drop by Ewa Ewart conveys a WBD U.K. & Ireland is a signatory of BAFTA’s albert Climate Content
strong message about the growing freshwater crisis. The Pledge, a commitment from the U.K.’s biggest media organizations
SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS
award-winning documentary exposes the global cost and to shine a light and help audiences better understand what
consequences of the destruction of nature and the inspiring tackling climate change might mean to them, as well as creating AND PACKAGING
story of how people are fighting until the last drop to protect content that inspires and informs sustainable choices. Our Climate
The Warner Bros. Studio Operations
rivers across the world. Additionally, TVN24 began airing a Content Pledge commitment is exemplified by series like Fifth
(WBSO) team encourages its suppliers to
cyclical program on ecology called Talks About the End of the Gear: Recharged on discovery+, a much-loved motoring format
use environmentally-friendlier packaging
World in 2021. The program aims to highlight the impact of focused on the benefit and appeal of electric vehicles; an editorial
for merchandise sold at its three Harry
ongoing climate change on everyday life, society, and the future push around reuse, repurpose, and renovation through shows like
Potter London retail outlets (The Harry
of subsequent generations, from the viewer’s perspective. The The Restorers, The Yorkshire Auction House, and The Repair Shop;
Potter Shop at Platform 9 ¾ - Kings Cross
goal is to increase ecological awareness and inspire changes in and a commitment to Formula E, with TNT Sports becoming the
and Heathrow - and the Warner Bros.
decisions and attitudes. Magdalena Łucyan, the co-author and official broadcast home of the world’s first all-electric FIA World
Studio Tour London: The Making of Harry
host of the show, was nominated last year for the prestigious Championship. TNT Sports also supports the world’s largest
Potter) and at its New York store.
Journalist for the Planet award. climate-football campaign, culminating with Green Football
Examples of efforts the WBSO team is
Weekend, which mobilizes fans, clubs, leagues, and partners to
making to reduce the environmental
Cartoon Network (CN) Climate Champions is a multiplatform take action on climate.
impact of products include:
EMEA campaign that uses CN brands, animation, and
• Working with the supply base to switch to
storytelling to encourage kids across the region to take small Warner Bros. International Television Production (WBITVP)
FSC-quality paper-based packaging in
steps in their own lives and collectively make a big difference in Australia is focused on increasing showing sustainable and green
items such as swing tags or riders to hold
tackling climate change. In 2022 and 2023, the campaign was practices on screen. For example, Selling Houses Australia, the
badges and key rings.
expanded to empower even more kids around the globe by number-one home renovation show in Australia, increasingly
• Reducing plastic packaging, where
focusing on three key pillars: inspiring the audience by giving showcases sustainable options to the audience. From the types
possible, by switching to paper-based or
prominence to real kids doing amazing things for the climate, of materials used to repurposing old materials to make homes
reusable packaging and, where plastic is
connecting with kids in innovative ways on the platforms they feel new again, audiences come away from the show with greener used, encouraging that it is made from at
love to spend time using, and making the campaign even more and cleaner ways to renovate their homes. least 30% recycled materials.
linked to their real lives. The initiative was propelled forward with
• Utilizing sustainable cotton on self-
multiple NGO partnerships and local activations, and 1.75 million Against the backdrop of COP28 in the UAE, CNN Academy convened developed apparel lines.
challenges have been accepted on the microsite, with an 110 budding journalists from around the world for a Climate
• Encouraging the use of recycled polyester
additional 7 million missions accepted through the popular Storytelling simulation — a hands-on experience in climate
in place of polyester fabric in Softline
online kids gaming platform Roblox. CN Climate Champions has reporting. This exercise placed the participants in the throes of a products (e.g., apparel and stuffing in
won numerous awards recognizing its purposeful and impactful simulated climate disaster within a fictional country, challenging homewares, general textile products).
work, such as a PRISM Award, a BIMA Gold Award, a Global Good them to utilize and sharpen their journalistic skills as the story
Bronze Award, a SABRE Award, an IPRA Golden World Award, and evolved over the course of a week. The participants included a
a 2023 Shorty Impact Award. cohort from the first-ever CNN Academy Global South Climate
Storytelling program, supported by The Rockefeller Foundation.
2023
Sustainability
Report
43
Governance
WBD incorporates ethics, integrity, and
compliance into every aspect of our business,
and we are committed to the highest ethical
standards. Acting responsibly is a core value
at WBD, and we are committed to fostering
an ethical and compliant culture throughout
our Company. This commitment has earned
the trust of our employees, consumers,
stockholders, suppliers, and business partners.
BARBIE
2023
Sustainability
Report
44
WARNER BROS. DISCOVERY BOARD OF DIRECTORS*
Corporate Governance
The Board of Directors of Warner Bros. Discovery
represents and acts on behalf of the Company’s Samuel A. Di Piazza, Jr. David M. Zaslav Li Haslett Chen Richard W. Fisher
stockholders and is committed to sound corporate Board Chair, President and CEO Independent Director Independent Director
governance, as reflected through its policies and Independent Director Director since 2008 Director since 2022 Director since 2022
practices. The Board believes that strong corporate Director since 2022
governance is essential to effective fulfillment of its
oversight responsibilities and fiduciary duties.
Our Board regularly assesses our governance policies
in light of legal requirements and governance best
practices. Our corporate governance practices are
embodied in our Corporate Governance Guidelines,
which provide a framework for effective governance
of the Company. Paul A. Gould Debra L. Lee Kenneth W. Lowe Dr. John C. Malone
Independent Director Independent Director Independent Director Independent Director
The Board of Directors is composed of 11 directors. Ten Director since 2008 Director since 2022 Director since 2018–2022; 2023 Director since 2008
of our 11 directors are independent, including our
Board Chair. All members of our key Board committees
— the Audit Committee, the Compensation Committee,
and the Nominating and Corporate Governance
Committee — are independent.
Fazal Merchant Paula A. Price Geoffrey Y. Yang
Independent Director Independent Director Independent Director
Director since 2022 Director since 2022 Director since 2022
2023
Sustainability
Report
*As of April 4, 2024.
45
The WBD Board is AGE OF INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS* GENDER DIVERSITY, RACIAL/ETHNIC DIVERSITY
composed of highly
1 1
skilled directors who 30s Male
1 3
3
represent diverse 66 50s Female
60s Asian
backgrounds and YEARS 6
average age 70s African American
4
viewpoints. 2
3
80s White
8
INDEPENDENCE TENURE OF INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS*
1
2
4.9
Independent 0 – 5 Years
YEARS
Non-Independent Over 15 Years**
average tenure
10 8
To learn more about our Board and Corporate Governance Highlights, see our most recent Proxy Statement on our website.
*Age and Tenure as of April 4, 2024.
**Includes prior service on Discovery, Inc. Board of Directors
2023
Sustainability
Report
46
Ethics and Integrity
BOARD’S ROLE IN RISK OVERSIGHT
Our commitment to the highest ethical standards ETHICS & COMPLIANCE PROGRAM
begins with leadership. Our Ethics & Compliance
Board of Directors
Our Ethics & Compliance Program ensures that
Program is overseen by our Legal Department,
how we do business is aligned with our Guiding
Has an active role, as a whole and at the committee level, in which is led by our Chief Legal Officer. Our Ethics
Principles, Code of Ethics, and applicable laws and
overseeing risk management. & Compliance Program is supported by a team of
regulations in the countries where we operate.
experienced compliance officers and
Regularly discusses with senior management the Company’s
professionals, led by our Senior Vice President,
competitive positioning, long term strategic plans, and key priorities. The Program has three pillars:
Head of Global Ethics & Compliance, who reports
directly to our Chief Legal Officer. The Audit • Education and Awareness: We use targeted,
Audit Committee
Committee of our Board receives quarterly risk-based training and awareness tools to
• Financial Reporting
updates on compliance, legal, and other relevant educate employees, raise levels of awareness
• Internal Controls topics provided by our Chief Legal Officer. and sensitivity to key risks, and provide best
• Cybersecurity and Information Technology practices to guide decision-making and
• Data Privacy Our commitment to the highest ethical behavior.
• ESG Disclosures standards is clearly articulated in our Code of
• Prevention and Detection: We drive a culture of
• Compliance and Ethics
Ethics, which contains the Company’s standards
integrity at all levels of the business to prevent
for conducting business ethically and applies to ethics, compliance, and regulatory problems
Compensation Committee all directors, officers, executives, and employees and encourage employees to speak up at the
worldwide. It is available in 17 different languages earliest possible stage if they have concerns or
• Incentive Compensation Plans
to serve our global employee population. It become aware of issues that may violate our
• CEO and Other Executive Officer Compensation
establishes the expectation that every employee Code of Ethics or applicable law.
• Other Employee Benefit and Compensation Arrangements
will conduct the Company’s business according
• Response and Remediation: We respond quickly
to applicable law and our core values of ethical
and thoroughly to investigate and, where
Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee
conduct, tolerance, empowerment, respect, and
necessary, remediate identified issues and use
• Corporate Governance
teamwork. It covers topics such as promoting a
metrics and other data to continually improve
• Board Composition, Independence, and Potential Conflicts of Interest safe and respectful workplace, anti-bribery and
the effectiveness of the Ethics & Compliance
• ESG Initiatives and Strategies anti-corruption guidelines, and policies to
Program and mitigate risk.
• Director Succession Planning protect the Company’s reputation. These
expectations are reinforced through ethics and Each new employee — whether full-time, part-
While each committee is responsible for evaluating compliance policies, processes, training, and time, or a contractor — is required to complete
certain risks and overseeing the management of such communications, which comprise our training on and acknowledge the Code of Ethics
risks, our entire Board is regularly informed about such comprehensive Ethics & Compliance Program. at onboarding. Starting in 2024, every employee
risks through committee reports and other presentations.
2023
Sustainability
Report
47
is required to acknowledge the Code of Ethics annually. All employees receive periodic
supplemental training or guidance on the Code of Ethics, either in whole or in reference to
certain key topics, such as antitrust and competition laws, anti-bribery and anti-corruption, ETHICS & COMPLIANCE PROGRAM
or sanctions and export controls.
Continuous improvement to empower success with integrity
We also conduct targeted, function-specific training to empower individuals to recognize and
mitigate risks specific to their roles and responsibilities. WBD provides online and live
trainings to business partners to clearly communicate our values and expectations of ethics
and integrity, in accordance with our Business Partner Statement of Ethics. In addition, we
provide periodic and tailored messaging throughout the year to drive awareness of specific
policies, such as our gifts and entertainment policy around the holidays.
Dedicated
WBD conducts periodic Compliance Risk Assessments, including, but not limited to, anti- Compliance
bribery and anti-corruption, antitrust, trade controls/sanctions, culture and tone, and/or Team
conflicts of interest. The Ethics & Compliance Office conducts or coordinates with other
Partner for
stakeholders (e.g., Internal Audit) to conduct these assessments. The results drive Conduct
Ongoing
enhancements to the Ethics & Compliance Program and related internal and financial Periodic Risk
Assessment
controls. Compliance risk assessments may be performed in response to: Assessment
& Evolution
• trends identified in reports submitted to our Ethics & Compliance Hotline;
1
• material changes to business operations; or 7 2
• regulatory changes. Execute 6 3
Investigations & 5 4 Maintain the
A key part of our Ethics & Compliance Program is our third-party risk management Remediate Code of Ethics
procedures, which establish the expectation of ethical business practices by our business Concerns
partners and ensure that their values and business practices are aligned with WBD’s. These
risk-based procedures include screening and due diligence, contractual representations
and warranties, training, acknowledgement of our Business Partner Statement of Ethics,
and other detailed internal processes and approvals, which are required before the Facilitate Training Implement Clear,
Company can undertake certain business activities. With respect to transactions involving & Continuous Accessible Policies
consumer products, for example, WBD conducts sanctions and corruption screening and Advice & Guidance
due diligence on its business partners, and the Company may require business partners to
complete targeted fair-work and safe-environment questionnaires and submit social
compliance audits concerning labor, health, safety, and environmental practices.
2023
Sustainability
Report
48
Anti-Bribery and misconduct in good faith. Importantly, the Company
unequivocally prohibits retaliation against any employee,
Anti-Corruption
regardless of their level or position, who responsibly
discloses such concerns.
The Company’s Ethics & Compliance Office has
Additionally, any employee or external stakeholder
responsibility for overseeing anti-bribery and anti-
(including suppliers, customers, and other third parties)
corruption compliance, under the advisement of our Chief
can use our Ethics Hotline, which is operated by an
Legal Officer. The Company is committed to complying
independent third-party provider and is publicly available
with all applicable anti-corruption laws. We strictly prohibit
worldwide by phone and website. The hotline is proactively
giving, offering, authorizing, or taking bribes in any
shared with all employees, including via publication in our
circumstance, as addressed in our global Anti-Bribery
Code of Ethics and on our Company intranet, and is also
Anti-Corruption (ABAC) Policy, which prohibits facilitation
prominently featured on the Ethics page of our public-
payments, and our Gifts and Entertainment Policy.
facing website so third parties are aware. Our Ethics
Our Code of Ethics and ABAC policy also contain Hotline facilitates anonymous reporting, where permitted
guidelines that address record keeping, approval by law, and all reports are treated confidentially.
procedures, and appropriate behavior related to anti-
WBD reviews every Ethics Hotline report and, where
bribery and anti-corruption. WBD provides periodic
appropriate, takes necessary investigative and corrective
supplemental, risk-based trainings on anti-bribery and
actions. Upon receipt of a report, the Ethics & Compliance
anti-corruption. Our Third-Party Due Diligence &
Office assesses the report and determines the appropriate
Oversight Guidelines outline our procedures to identify,
stakeholder (e.g., Ethics & Compliance, Legal, and/or People
onboard, and oversee third-party relationships consistent
and Culture) to manage and, if necessary, investigate and
with our values and our Company policies.
remediate, the alleged issue(s). Key metrics and information
related to Ethics Hotline reports, other compliance matters,
Ethics Hotline and labor, employment, and benefits matters are maintained
by the Ethics & Compliance Office in consultation with other
relevant stakeholders. Lessons learned from allegations and
We foster an open environment in which employees and
investigations are often integrated into future trainings,
external stakeholders feel empowered to speak up and
communications, and programmatic enhancements.
raise concerns. The Code of Ethics includes information
about how employees can report ethics concerns.
The Chief Legal Officer reports on Ethics Hotline and other
Employees can approach a member of management, a
ethics and compliance matters quarterly to the Audit
People and Culture partner, or the Ethics & Compliance
Committee of the Board of Directors. WBD executive
Office. WBD is committed to fostering a culture where
management and other relevant stakeholders also receive
employees feel secure in reporting known or suspected
periodic reports during the year.
2023
Sustainability
Report
49
Supplier Diversity Data Privacy and teams, including the Global Information & Security team
(led by our Global Chief Information & Content Security
Cybersecurity
Officer), and internal business stakeholders, who act as
WBD is committed to establishing and growing
data protection liaisons for their business teams.
relationships with businesses owned and operated by
WBD views data protection as a foundational component
underrepresented groups to fuel innovation,
The Privacy Legal, Privacy Services, and Product
of its trusted relationships with customers, business
strengthening our corporate brand through inclusion
Compliance teams participate in monthly Privacy
partners, employees, and talent around the world. To
of culturally diverse ideas, adding value to our
Operations Steering Committee meetings (led by the EVP,
maintain that trust, the Company is focused not only on
operations, and creating positive economic impact in
Legal, Streaming, Technology, Privacy, and Business
building and maintaining comprehensive security and
the communities and audiences we serve.
Operations) and report up to a C-Level AI and Data
privacy programs for legal compliance and risk
Steering Committee. In addition, the Board has ultimate
WBD’s Supplier Diversity Program promotes, management, but also on building and maintaining a
oversight of all enterprise risks, including data privacy and
increases, and improves the participation of company culture in which responsible stewardship of data
cybersecurity. The Board has delegated responsibility for
diverse businesses within our organizational supply is understood by every member of the WBD team to be a
cybersecurity and data privacy risks to the Audit
chain and investment portfolio. core value of the organization and a central tenet of how
Committee, which receives quarterly reports on relevant
we do business every day.
data privacy and cybersecurity issues and updates from
We identify a diverse supplier as an organization with
at least 51% of ownership from designated diverse WBD has dedicated teams of experts who are focused our Global Chief Information & Content Security Officer
backgrounds, including ethnic minorities, women, squarely on privacy and data protection. Our privacy and our Chief Legal Officer.
LGBTQ+ individuals, veterans, and persons with lawyers within the Global Privacy Legal team (led by our
disabilities, and work with various partners and SVP, Head of Privacy) work closely with operations
DATA PRIVACY AND SECURITY TRAINING
organizations around the globe to facilitate an professionals within our Global Privacy Services team (led
introduction to new, diverse suppliers. We also by our VP, Privacy Operations Compliance & Project All employees, including part-time employees with access
encourage diverse suppliers to connect with us Management in the Global Corporate Operations to our systems, are trained on privacy and data protection
directly through our Procurement & Strategic organization), and our Product Compliance team (led by a at onboarding and on an annual basis thereafter. Those
Sourcing and Supplier Diversity sites. SVP, Product Management within the WBD Global Product with special responsibilities for data handling receive
& Design organization). This tripartite structure of legal, additional training relevant to their roles. Additionally, all
To ensure a successful partnership, all suppliers are operations, and product professionals provides the privacy employees receive annual cybersecurity training, as well
thoroughly vetted and reviewed in line with our program with the scope it needs to cover WBD’s operations as incident-specific training, as appropriate.
procurement practices. We facilitate an introduction and businesses around the world. The Privacy Legal,
of qualified diverse suppliers to the areas of our Privacy Services, and Product Compliance teams work
business in which they best align for future together to develop and maintain administrative, technical, PRIVACY POLICY AND PROGRAM
consideration and engagement. Through our and operational controls to handle personal data in a
WBD has a detailed privacy policy, which is translated into
supplier diversity network, we will connect and manner that is compliant with the law while also being fair,
multiple languages and abides by legal requirements in
engage with diverse suppliers in an effort to grow ethical, and transparent. These teams work collaboratively
each jurisdiction. We are committed to collecting and
and sustain a steady supply of talented partners. with each other and in partnership with our global business
processing user data that is limited to the stated purpose,
2023
Sustainability
Report
50
through lawful and transparent means, with explicit consent of the data subject, where
required. WBD is also committed to deleting data when it is no longer needed, as required CYBERSECURITY INCIDENT RESPONSE PROCESS
by law. We provide multiple avenues for data subjects to contact us in the event they have
concerns about their data privacy. We engage in privacy by design and review, and we
analyze proposed products and data use cases for privacy issues and, if necessary,
Indentify incident (service desk/
perform data protection impact assessments. We also include specific provisions in
MSSP assigns, other source of
contracts with vendors and other service providers requiring them to comply with our indentifcation) | Confirm incident
severity | Collect known facts |
Company’s privacy and data protection policies.
Classify security incident
CYBERSECURITY PROGRAM Alert & Scope Assemble CSIRT | CSIRT reassesses threat
| Indentify potential breach | Perform
WBD’s cybersecurity program involves a combination of well-defined processes, skilled forensics if necessary
personnel, advanced technologies, and a proactive mindset. It is based on best practices
and industry-standard frameworks including ISO 27001 and National Institute of Standards
Investigate Analyze containment requirement | Determine plan
and Technology (NIST) and comprises Information Security Governance, Risk, Data
| Implement plan
Survey for
Security, Compliance, Application Security/Development Security Operations, Product
related
Security, Cybersecurity Operations, IT Security Architecture and Engineering, Content events
Security, eDiscovery, and Forensics.
Contain
Plan/execute remediation | Assess impacts |
New Evaluate effectiveness
To ensure that employees are utilizing the skills they are trained on, we send out
impacts
monthly phishing simulations that progress in their difficulty. Any employee that does found
not react appropriately to the phishing email automatically gets directed to a training
Eradicate/Mitigate
Plan/execute recovery | Send
page on the topic.
New status notice | Legal decision on
impacts communication plan
WBD has robust access control and encryption/de-identification techniques in place to found
protect user data. We conduct targeted attack and penetration testing throughout every
Recover
Confirm findings |
year. In addition, we conduct an external attack and penetration testing across our network
New Deliver report |
on an annual basis. WBD has intrusion-detection systems in place, with global monitoring impacts Make notifications
across WBD’s end points, and has a 24/7 automated alerting system in place, with five levels found
of alerts for potential cybersecurity breaches. In the event of a cybersecurity incident, the Report Implement
Company’s Cybersecurity Incident Response (CSIR) plan, which uses a comprehensive and corrective
actions
proactive process to manage and mitigate the impact of security incidents on the
organization while continuously improving the organization’s overall security posture,
provides a transparent, standardized, and organized approach for handling cybersecurity- Lessons Learned
related incidents. The plan consists of seven phases, which is shown on the right.
2023
Sustainability
Report
51
The plan outlines explicit roles and responsibilities,
including for the Incident Commander, the Cybersecurity
Incident Response team (CSIRT), Information Technology
Infrastructure, Digital and Broadcast teams, Physical
Security, Subject Matter Experts, and the Executive CSIRT
members. The plan also outlines communication planning,
legal protocols, and notification processes, including
regulatory and SEC reporting.
To proactively protect against breaches, we conduct
continuous internal monitoring, as well as have external
partners that monitor the systems for any potential risks.
We also conduct vendor due diligence and contractually
require our vendors to notify WBD of any cyber breaches in
which they are involved.
ENGAGING BROADER STAKEHOLDERS
Our commitment to data protection is furthered through
participation in a variety of organizations and working groups
centered on data protection, particularly on the privacy
impacts of emerging and evolving technologies, as we seek
to be actively engaged in the local, regional, and global
conversations around privacy that impact our industry, our
organization, and our customers in ever-evolving ways.
Political Spending and
Engagement in Public
Policy Matters
At WBD, we recognize that many federal, state, and local
public policy decisions may affect our business, and we
2023
Sustainability
Report
believe that constructively engaging around these issues is
in the best interest of the Company and our stockholders.
We might participate in public policy advocacy to support
the Company’s positions and, as permitted by law and
deemed appropriate by management, might contribute to
candidates for public office and related organizations.
Additionally, it is currently the Company’s position not to
engage in direct independent expenditures.
Our U.S. political activity is conducted in compliance with
applicable laws and reporting requirements, as well as our
Company’s policies and principles. Political activity and
contributions are carried out in the interests of the
Company and are conducted without regard to the private
political preferences of our Board or executive team.
Our Board is committed to ensuring transparency and
accountability with respect to our political activities and
contributions. Each year, the Nominating and Corporate
Governance Committee of our Board reviews our policies
and processes around political spending and public policy
and makes recommendations for any appropriate
revisions and enhancements needed to ensure the timely,
complete, and useful information regarding the Company’s
political activities and contributions.
POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS
We do not contribute corporate funds to candidates for
federal offices. Any monetary or other contributions by a
WBD officer, director, or employee to such candidates or
organizations must be made solely in the donor’s personal
capacity. Under no circumstances will such contributions
be reimbursed by WBD, any of its subsidiaries or affiliates,
THE LEAD WITH JAKE TAPPER
or any other individual.
52
WBD’s political involvement program is described in the Code generally split between candidates for the two major
of Ethics. Employees have the right to voluntarily participate parties over the course of an election cycle but are
in the political process, including making personal otherwise allocated based on our Company’s objectives
contributions and engaging in personal volunteer political and policy priorities and not on the basis of the partisan
activity; however, employees must always make it clear that affiliation of the candidate or organization. Details on
the actions are not those of the Company. Some employees contributions made by the WBD PAC can be found on the
have restrictions on their personal political activities and FEC website (www.fec.gov).
must consult with Legal and the Ethics & Compliance Office
before engaging in personal political activities.
TRADE ASSOCIATIONS
As permitted by applicable law, we may contribute corporate
WBD belongs to a number of U.S. trade associations for
funds to state and local political parties, candidates for state
various business-related reasons, such as networking with
and local offices, and organizations that promote or oppose
peer firms and helping develop industry best practices.
such candidates or state and local ballot initiatives. No state
While we pay membership dues, we do not control how such
or local contributions may be made by the Company without
dues are spent, and we may not agree with the position or
prior written approval of the Executive Vice President of
decision an organization takes on a given matter. Information
Public Policy and Corporate/Government Affairs. In addition,
on the trade associations we are a member of can be found
no single contribution above $1,000 may be made without
on our website. In March of 2025, we will report the non–tax-
prior written approval from the Chief Legal Officer.
deductible portion of the dues for those named trade
associations that we paid in the preceding calendar year
All corporate contributions are made based on corporate
that have been designated for lobbying expenditures by the
objectives and public policy priorities and not on the basis
trade association.
of the partisan affiliation of the candidate or organization.
Information on our political contribution activity is available
on our website.
LOBBYING ACTIVITY
The Company employs and occasionally contracts for
POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEE lobbying services to address issues of interest to the
Company. These activities are conducted in compliance with
In accordance with regulations of the U.S. Federal Election
all legal requirements. We report our lobbying activity related
Commission (“FEC”), we maintain the Discovery
to the federal government of the United States, as required
Communications, LLC PAC (the “WBD PAC”), a federal
by law, to the Secretary of the Senate and to the Office of the
political action committee that accepts voluntary
Clerk of the House of Representatives. These reports are
contributions from employees and, in turn, makes
available on the websites of those entities. We also disclose
contributions to candidates for federal office.
state-based lobbying activities to the relevant agencies.
Contributions from the WBD PAC to candidates are
2023
Sustainability
Report
53
Responsible Content
A BLACK LADY SKETCH SHOW
As a global media and entertainment company that tells the world’s stories through television, film, and online, WBD is
committed to building trusted relationships with our customers around the world.
JOURNALISTIC INTEGRITY AND MEDIA ETHICS the year. In 2023, TVN24 journalists and editors received
legal-orientated training sessions focused on how to
This trust is even more pivotal when it comes to the news
navigate the challenges of reporting on both election
we report through CNN and TVN24 — Poland’s leading
campaigns and hate speech.
independent news broadcaster and a part of TVN Network.
Our commitment to the independence of our editorial
Both CNN and TVN24 have dedicated Standards and
decisions from all internal or outside influences, including
Practices (S&P) teams responsible for monitoring and
any political or commercial interests, is the bedrock of
ensuring that journalists adhere to the guidelines. At
building this trust and our ability to provide accurate and
TVN24, this team attends all editorial meetings and has
useful information.
the authority to intervene if they observe deviations
from the guidelines that might compromise the
Whether on television or online, our journalists are required
Company’s standards. This team also holds monthly
to abide by high standards of ethics and adhere to
meetings to discuss crucial issues related to S&P policies
stringent standards of journalistic integrity. To set those
with journalists directly. However, they discuss and
standards, the Company has implemented a
monitor the S&P-orientated challenges daily. At CNN, the
comprehensive set of policies and procedures that ensure
S&P team reports to the Executive Vice President of
pluralism in news media content and that uphold our AI USE GUIDELINES
Integrity and Inclusion, who is responsible for ensuring
editorial guidelines, which include being committed to
CNN’s brand integrity for television, digital, and sales is
accuracy, independence, and respect to fairness for all To support CNN editorial guidance
upheld and advises on everything from conflicts of
parties. They were recently updated to include guidelines restricting the use of artificial intelligence
interest and editorial fairness to reporting about
restricting the use of artificial intelligence (AI) platforms (AI) platforms without management
sensitive or controversial topics and the language and
without management approval. All relevant CNN employees approval, teams are tasked with vetting
images used.
must read and attest to their adherence to the Standard & images from third parties, particularly in
Practices Policy Guide and relevant policies upon hire and conflict zones, to ensure they have the
Both CNN and TVN24 have launched fact-checking
annually thereafter. TVN24 employees must adhere to necessary digital indicators of authenticity. platforms in an effort to combat misinformation and
Guidelines for TVN News Journalists. They receive training CNN is also exploring potential
disinformation. These platforms provide the audience with
on the documents, which include, among others, guidelines opportunities to create AI detection and
verified, in-depth articles related to potential false claims
for news gathering and protecting individuals’ privacy. protection technology.
being made during a program or other public statements.
Additional ad hoc trainings are also provided throughout
2023
Sustainability
Report
54
CNN NEWSNIGHT WITH ABBY PHILLIP TVN24 is also monitored for accuracy through periodic works to ensure that all content complies with applicable
audits by George Washington University and Cardiff governmental regulations, cultural mores, voluntary
University to provide management information and advice content ratings, and our internal standards.
to maintain the highest standards of journalistic practices.
Responsible Advertising and Marketing
Concerns and grievances about CNN reporting are
collected through a number of mechanisms, including In our endeavor to bring quality programming to our
email and voicemail. The concerns are reviewed and, when viewers, we also strive to ensure that the commercial
deemed appropriate, updates, clarifications, or corrections content and marketing initiatives align with our commercial
are issued. clearance guidelines and our viewers’ and advertisers’
expectations for responsible advertising and marketing.
RESPONSIBLE PROGRAMMING We require that our advertisers ensure that their
commercial content complies with all applicable laws and
WBD is committed to responsible storytelling and the
regulations and industry self-regulatory guidelines and
production of impactful content. As discussed in the
that any statements made in such content be truthful, not
Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion section of this report, we
deceptive, and subject to substantiation upon our
strive for our content, ranging from our movies to our TV
request. We work with our internal and external business
shows to our news coverage, to advance the inclusion of
partners to restrict advertising that might be considered
underrepresented communities and diverse voices and
inappropriate for younger audiences so that those ads do
perspectives so that it resonates with our increasingly
not appear in content directed at those younger viewers.
diverse and global audiences. We know that our content
We also ensure that other categories of advertising, such
also has the power to address important social issues, so
as beer and alcohol ads, are placed only in programming
we work to maintain our viewers’ trust by exploring the
appropriate for the audience based on our commercial
issues and experiences that shape their worlds, prioritizing
clearance guidelines using criteria such as brand
the accuracy and integrity of our editorial practices, and
sensitivities, ratings, audience demographics, program
contributing to positive social impact where it is
content, and other industry best practices. Additionally,
appropriate and possible.
WBD does not accept ads for certain categories, such as
tobacco, weapons, pornography, or illegal drugs or
Our Studios & Networks S&P team issues policies and
services.
guidelines and works with entertainment producers and
partners to address content issues, such as indecency,
WBD reserves the right to review all advertising and to
violence, sexual depictions, nudity, language, or content
accept, reject, or require editing of any advertisement or
that is potentially offensive or inappropriate for the
promotional message for any reason whatsoever, including
intended audiences. Responsible for reviewing, vetting, and
but not limited to, those it deems false, misleading,
advising on content shown on our platforms, the team
2023
Sustainability
Report
55
deceptive, offensive, in poor taste, and/or inconsistent with (a) the depiction involves a character who is a literary
editorial content. Furthermore, WBD regularly reviews ads, or an actual historical figure known to have used
including those that viewers have flagged, to ensure tobacco products; (b) the depiction is otherwise warranted
compliance with our advertising guidelines and industry for reasons of compelling literary or historical accuracy;
best practices. or (c) the depiction is part of a conspicuous anti-smoking
reference. Even within these three categories, the
Studios consider ways to reduce depictions of smoking
Film Studio Tobacco Depiction Policy
and tobacco.
WBD firmly believes in artistic freedom of expression and
• The Studios endeavor to reduce or eliminate depictions of
actively supports the creative vision of producers, writers,
smoking and tobacco products/brands in any theatrical
directors, actors, and others involved in making feature films.
feature film produced and distributed in the United States
that is expected to be rated “R” unless there are compelling
Consistent with this belief, WBD’s film studios, Warner Bros.
creative reasons for such depictions.
Pictures, New Line Cinema, and DC Studios (together, the
• For any feature film produced by the Studios for theatrical
“Studios”), work closely with creative talent to produce and
release outside the United States or where the Studios’
distribute for theatrical release feature films that appeal to
influence over the content of any feature film is limited
a wide array of audiences. At the same time, the Studios
(such as a film co-produced by third parties or films
strive to produce and distribute feature films in a
produced by third parties and only distributed by the
responsible manner and remain sensitive to public
Studios), the Studios discourage the depiction of smoking
concerns, industry practices, and public health regulations,
when they believe it is appropriate to do so.
as well as research in this area as they evolve over time.
Accordingly, the Studios endeavor to reduce or eliminate
the depiction of smoking and tobacco products/brands in Intellectual Property
their feature films, unless there is a compelling creative
Our intellectual property assets include copyrights,
reason for such depictions.
trademarks, patents, websites, and licenses of intellectual
property rights from third parties.
WBD Studios’ practices:
• The Studios do not enter into any product placement or We are fundamentally a content company, and the
promotion arrangements with respect to tobacco protection of our content and brands is of primary
products/brands for any theatrical feature film they importance. To protect our intellectual property assets, we
produce and distribute in the United States. rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, patent,
unfair competition, and internet/domain name statutes
• The Studios endeavor to reduce or eliminate depictions of
and laws, and contract provisions.
smoking and tobacco products/brands in any theatrical
feature film produced and distributed in the United States
We seek to limit unauthorized use of our intellectual
that is expected to be rated “G,” “PG,” or “PG-13” unless
property through a combination of approaches. We have a
2023
Sustainability
Report
56
team dedicated to disrupting and curbing piracy and other forms
of IP infringement and use external vendors to detect and remove
infringing intellectual property.
We also engage with intermediaries that facilitate anti-piracy best
practices, leverage our membership in a range of industry groups,
work with law enforcement and governmental entities like U.S.
Customs & Border Protection and foreign counterparts, and initiate
enforcement actions, including litigation, to address piracy and other
forms of IP infringement.
Product Accessibility
We believe that everyone should be able to enjoy the entertainment
we provide so we strive to ensure that our content, websites, events,
sites, and applications are accessible to all, regardless of their
ability. We are always working to facilitate and improve this
accessibility, as well as the usability of our sites and applications.
Currently, we offer a range of tools and accessibility features,
BARBIE
including audio descriptions, closed captioning, keyboard
navigation, interoperability with popular screen readers, and other
BARBIE WITH ASL
accessibility features. As this is an ongoing effort, we are always
Grounded in research and feedback from the Deaf community, as well as counsel
open to feedback from our users and viewers and are committed
from community leaders, Warner Bros. and Max launched Barbie with ASL, the hit
to working with the industry, community, and policymakers to
blockbuster film interpreted in American Sign Language (ASL), featuring ASL
deliver more inclusive and accessible entertainment to the world.
performer Leila Hanaumi.
In 2023, Warner Bros. Studios Leavesden (WBSL) joined The
To celebrate Barbie with ASL coming to the platform, Max hosted a special community
Television Access Project (TAP), a TV industry working group that is
screening in collaboration with the esteemed Tony® Award–winning nonprofit, Deaf focused on improving accessibility. Through working with TAP,
West Theatre, a celebrated Deaf institution in Los Angeles for more than 30 years, and
WBSL is adopting the “5 A Structure,” which is guidelines for
RespectAbility, the mission of which is to fight stigmas and advance opportunities so
disability inclusion for U.K. production. To aid accessibility on
people with disabilities can fully participate in all aspects of community.
WBSL’s studio site, fully electric doors were installed in 2023 in the
multifunction area and will be installed in future developments.
At the screening, Barbie star and Oscar®-nominee Margot Robbie joined
Leila Hanaumi on stage for a post-screening conversation for hundreds of community
members and Barbie fans.
2023
Sustainability
Report
57
Appendix
2023
Sustainability
Report
58
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Index —
Media & Entertainment Standard
Topic Code Metric Response
See the Our Global Team section of this report.
Percentage of gender and racial/ethnic group representation for (1)
SV-ME-260a.1
management, (2) professionals, and (3) all other employees Refer to our EEO-1 reports on our website, reflecting the company’s U.S.
Media Pluralism workforce as of December 31 of the most recent year that is available.
Description of policies and procedures to ensuring pluralism in news media
SV-ME-260a.2 See the Journalistic Integrity and Media Ethics section of this report
content
Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated Material legal proceedings are disclosed in our annual 10-K and quarterly
SV-ME-270a.1
with libel or slander 10-Qs filed with the SEC.
Journalistic Integrity
& Sponsorship Description of approach for ensuring journalistic integrity of news
Identification programming related to: (1) truthfulness, accuracy, objectivity, fairness, and
SV-ME-270a.3 See the Journalistic Integrity and Media Ethics section of this report.
accountability, (2) independence of content and/or transparency of potential
bias, and (3) protection of privacy and limitation of harm
Intellectual Property
Protection & Media SV-ME-520a.1 Description of approach to ensuring intellectual property (IP) protection See the Intellectual Property section of this report.
Piracy
Code Activity Metric Response
See pages 5–8 of the Warner Bros. Discovery Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
(1) Total recipients of media and the number of (2) households reached by
December 31, 2023.
SV-ME-000.A broadcast TV, (3) subscribers to cable networks, and (4) circulation for
magazines and newspapers
(4) Circulation for magazines and newspapers is not applicable.
See pages 5–8 of the Warner Bros. Discovery Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
SV-ME-000.B Total number of media productions and publications produced
December 31, 2023.
2023
Sustainability
Report
59
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures Index
Warner Bros. Discovery’s (WBD) approach to disclosing climate-related risks and opportunities is aligned with the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) recommendations.
CLIMATE CHANGE GOVERNANCE b)Management Role
Our Chief Executive Officer provides executive direction on ESG strategy, including the
a)Board Oversight Company’s management of climate-related issues. In addition, WBD’s EVP, Global Head of
ESG, who reports directly to WBD’s Chief Legal Officer, has functional responsibility for ESG
Our Board of Directors provides oversight of Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG)
and is charged with evaluating and implementing the strategic direction of WBD’s ESG and
activities, including climate-related issues, through the Nominating and Corporate
climate-related initiatives. The EVP, Global Head of ESG, is supported by other senior
Governance Committee and Audit Committee. The Nominating and Corporate Governance
executives, including our Chief People and Culture Officer and Chief Global Diversity, Equity,
Committee is responsible for overseeing and monitoring the Company’s strategy, policies,
& Inclusion Officer.
commitments, and initiatives with respect to ESG matters. The Audit Committee reviews
the Company’s key public ESG disclosures, including any climate-related disclosures, and
the adequacy and effectiveness of applicable internal reporting and controls related to
STRATEGY
such disclosures. The Audit Committee also oversees key finance-related initiatives related
to ESG generally and climate specifically. WBD has identified climate-related risks that may have adverse effects on our Company.
The nature of these risks depends on regulatory and market requirements, pressure to
The governance mechanisms into which climate-related issues are integrated include reduce our carbon footprint, and our ability to understand and respond to rapidly evolving
reviewing and guiding strategy and monitoring progress toward corporate targets. The developments. As described in our 10-K, our identified risks include the following:
Audit Committee discusses climate-related issues in connection with its review of the
Company’s annual report on Form 10-K. In addition, as needed or as requested by the Regulatory Risk: U.S. state and federal regulators, international regulators, investors,
Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee and Audit Committee, the EVP, Global consumers, and other stakeholders are increasingly focused on environmental, social,
Head of ESG, and/or other high-level executives with direct knowledge and oversight of and governance considerations. For example, new domestic and international laws and
WBD’s ESG strategy schedule time allocated during the Nominating and Corporate regulations relating to environmental, social, and governance matters, including
Governance Committee and Audit Committee meetings to present on climate-related environmental sustainability and climate change, human capital management, and
goals, initiatives, and progress. The presenters typically determined the focus area(s) of the cybersecurity, are under consideration or have been adopted. Many such laws, including
presentation and allowed time for discussion and feedback from the Committees. new greenhouse gas emission regulations that have already been adopted in the State of
California and in the European Union and have been proposed in other jurisdictions,
include specific, quantitative disclosures regarding our global operations, both upstream
2023
Sustainability
Report
60
and downstream. These increased disclosure obligations have required and may continue Throughout 2023, we worked with a third-party consultant to advise on risks and
to require us to implement new practices and reporting processes and have created and opportunities. Key activities included conducting benchmarking, interviewing internal
may continue to create additional compliance risk. They may also result in increased stakeholders to gather insights, identifying disclosure opportunities, and recommending
costs relating to tracking, reporting and compliance. next steps.
Reputational Risk: We have adopted several initiatives and programs focused on WBD senior executives and Board of Directors are focused on managing and mitigating
environmental, social, and governance issues, which may not achieve their intended various risks to our business and financial performance, including climate-related risks.
outcomes. If we are unable to meet our enterprise objectives, or live up to evolving While each committee is responsible for evaluating certain risks and overseeing the
stakeholder expectations and industry standards for environmental, social, and management of such risks, our entire Board is regularly informed through committee
governance issues, or if we are perceived by consumers, stockholders, or employees reports and management presentations to the full Board about such risks.
to have not responded appropriately with respect to these issues, our reputation, and
therefore our ability to sell our products and services, could be negatively impacted. If,
METRICS AND TARGETS
as a result of their assessment of our performance on environmental, social, and
governance matters, certain investors are unsatisfied with our actions or progress, Throughout 2023, WBD established the greenhouse gas emissions inventory for Scope 1
they may reconsider their investment in our Company. Providers of debt and equity and 2 and five material Scope 3 categories. Additionally, we worked to understand and plan
financing may also consider our performance in these areas and the ratings of for forthcoming climate-related disclosure regulations.
external firms (which we have limited ability to influence) in their decisions involving our
Refer to the Climate Action section of the Sustainability Report for information on our
Company, which could impact our cost of capital and adversely affect our businesss.
metrics and emissions.
RISK MANAGEMENT In 2024, we will continue our efforts to reduce emissions, i.e., increasing energy efficiency,
exploring investments in renewable energy projects, and potentially purchasing Renewable
WBD recognizes climate change as a critical global issue, and we endeavor to do our part
Energy Credits (RECs) and carbon offsets, where appropriate. We will also evaluate the
to drive positive change. As a media company, our impact on this issue is limited. Therefore,
opportunity to set enterprise-level GHG emissions reduction goals, supported by a
we focus our efforts where we have the most significant opportunities for progress,
roadmap to ensure we can deliver on our commitments.
balanced with investments in a range of critical ESG issues. We are committed to lowering
our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, investing in clean energy, and telling stories that will
inspire our audiences.
As a newly formed organization, we are focused on continuing legacy efforts to
actively reduce operational emissions, identifying and implementing new initiatives
(see Sustainable Workplaces and Sustainable Productions), while simultaneously
building a longer-term, enterprise-level strategy for our future as a new organization.
2023
Sustainability
Report
61
Scope 1 and 2 Calculation Methodology
WBD selected operational control as the approach for consolidating its organizational boundary. WBD includes emissions from operations across its global operating units (which includes
subsidiaries that are 100% owned, directly or indirectly, by WBD). The facilities falling under WBD’s operational control comprise primarily of offices, warehouses and production studios
across North America (NA); Latin America (LATAM); Europe, the Middle East, and Africa (EMEA); and Asia Pacific (APAC). Emissions were calculated for January 1 - December 31, 2023; for
facilities that closed prior to the year’s end, estimations only occurred for the period the facility was under WBD’s operational control.
WBD’s Scope 1 inventory consists of emissions from the combustion of stationary and transport fuels such as natural gas, diesel, and petroleum at owned and leased facilities and in owned
or leased vehicles, equipment, and private jets under operational control. Scope 2 includes emissions from the purchase of electricity, steam, heating, and cooling used on-site at the
owned and leased facilities across WBD’s global facility portfolio that are under its operational control. Note that all Scope 1 and 2 emissions used Global Warming Potentials (GWP) from the
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), Fourth Assessment Report (AR4).
Scope 1 Emissions Source Calculation Methodology Estimation Methodology Data Used Emissions Factors Exclusions Assumptions
Stationary Natural gas Emissions from natural gas In instances where actual natural gas Activity data — Annual United States — If there was no confirmation
were calculated based on usage was unavailable but natural gas quantity of natural gas Environmental Protection of natural gas used at the
actual and estimated was confirmed to be used at the site, the purchased Agency (EPA) Emission for site, no estimations were
consumption for each average-data method was used: GHG Inventories (Table 1), performed and emissions
facility where onsite natural April 3, 2023. were not calculated.
gas usage was confirmed. • For sites in the U.S., square footage,
Annual consumption of facility type, and facility region were International Energy Agency
fuels at WBD facilities were used to estimate total fuel (IEA) Direct Combustion
multiplied by EPA GHG consumption (therms) using EIA/ Emission Factors, 2023.
emission factors based on CBECS intensity factors.
fuel type.
• For sites outside of the U.S., square
footage and location were used to
map each facility to an EIA/CBECS
climate zone to estimate total fuel
consumption (therms) using EIA/
CBECS intensity factors.
Stationary Diesel Emissions from diesel were In instances where actual diesel usage Activity data — Annual United States — If no generators were listed
calculated based on actual was unavailable but diesel was confirmed quantity of diesel Environmental Protection for the facility, it was
consumption for each to be used at the site, the average- data purchased Agency (EPA) Emission for assumed that generators
facility where onsite diesel method was used: GHG Inventories (Table 1), were not used and thus
usage was provided. April 3, 2023. emissions were not
Annual consumption of • The total diesel usage from each calculated.
fuels at WBD facilities was generator (from provided data) was
multiplied by EPA GHG averaged to estimate diesel use per
emission factors based on generator. Based on the data
fuel type. provided, the diesel use per
generator was multiplied by the
number of generators indicated at
that facility.
2023
Sustainability
Report
62
Scope 1 Emissions Source Calculation Methodology Estimation Methodology Data Used Emissions Factors Exclusions Assumptions
Stationary Propane Emissions from propane N/A — no estimations were performed. Activity data — Annual United States — If propane usage was not
were calculated based on quantity of propane Environmental Protection provided, no estimations
actual consumption for purchased Agency (EPA) Emission for were performed and
each facility where onsite GHG Inventories (Table 1), emissions were not
propane usage was April 3, 2023. calculated.
provided. Annual
consumption of fuels at
WBD facilities was
multiplied by EPA GHG
emission factors based on
fuel type.
Fugitive Refrigerants Emissions from In instances where actual refill data was Annual amount of United States — If no data was provided on
refrigerants were unavailable but the equipment was refrigerant purchased or Environmental Protection the power, capacity, usage,
calculated based on the recharged during the year, the refill number of units, Agency (EPA) Emission for or refrigerant of the
annual amount of amount was estimated using the EPA capacity, and type of GHG Inventories (Tables 11 equipment, then the
refrigerant purchased for average leakage rate and the frequency refrigerant(s) used and 12), April 3, 2023. equipment was not
each facility. This was assumed was 1 year (i.e., entire reporting estimated and emissions
multiplied by the EPA GHG period). were not calculated.
emission factor based on
refrigerant type. If 0 usage was provided for
the equipment then it was
Total capacity for assumed that there was no
refrigerants for each type leakage during the reporting
of equipment used by year.
location was multiplied by
an annual leak rate and
installation leak rate.
Fugitive Fire System type (fixed or N/A — no estimations were performed. Number of fire Direct Fugitive Emissions If suppressant discharge was
suppressants portable) was used to suppression systems and from Fire Suppression reported, it was assumed
estimate an annual leak their associated system (epa.gov) that this usage was for the
rate which was multiplied type and suppressant entire year.
by a GWP based on chemical
suppressant chemical. Fire suppressant usage was
not estimated. Equipment
was only included in the
calculation if it was
confirmed that the
equipment had been
discharged during the year.
2023
Sustainability
Report
63
Scope 1 Emissions Source Calculation Methodology Estimation Methodology Data Used Emissions Factors Exclusions Assumptions
Fugitive Vehicle Count of owned or leased N/A — no estimations were performed. Number of owned and Direct Fugitive Emissions Non-road vehicles,
road vehicles was leased vehicles and from Air Conditioning motorcycles, and forklifts were
multiplied by an assumed average annual leakage (epa.gov) assumed to not use coolant
leakage rate of coolant rate and thus had no emissions
annually. related to refrigerants.
All road vehicles were
assumed to have an internal
cooling system.
All road vehicles were
assumed to lose 20% of their
coolant capacity in a year.
All road vehicles were assumed
to use HFC-134A coolant.
Mobile Diesel, Annual consumption of In instances where only a portion of the Activity data — Annual United States — When vehicle type was not
gasoline/petrol, mobile fuel (fleet and fuel usage for the year was provided, the fuel usage for WBD Environmental Protection provided, vehicle type was
propane private jets) was multiplied usage was annualized to account for the owned or leased vehicle Agency (EPA) Emission for assumed to be passenger
by EPA GHG emission entire year. fleet and private jets GHG Inventories (Tables 2, 3, cars.
factors by fuel type. and 4), April 3, 2023.
In instances where actual or estimated
fuel usage was not provided, an average
fuel usage for the year by the WBD fleet
within a specific region was calculated
and applied to fleet within that region that
required the estimation.
2023
Sustainability
Report
64
Scope 2 Emissions Source Calculation Methodology Estimation Methodology Data Used Emissions Factors Exclusions Assumptions
Facilities Purchased Location-based method In instances where actual electricity Activity data — Annual United States — If square footage was
(Location-based) electricity based on actual and usage was unavailable, but it was metered electricity usage Environmental Protection unavailable and actual
(Location- estimated purchased determined, based on facility type, that Agency (EPA) Emissions & electricity consumption data
based method) electricity consumption for electricity was used in the facility, Generation Resource was not provided, it was
all facilities in the reporting electricity consumption was estimated: Integrated Database assumed that no electricity
boundary. (“eGRID”) emission factors was consumed and thus
• Using the Commercial Buildings
with 2022 data, January 30, emissions were not calculated.
Annual metered electricity Energy Consumption Survey (CBECS)
2024.
usage for all facilities was 2018 data according to site type in Sites with the space type as
multiplied by EPA Emissions the U.S. and Canada. National Inventory Report ‘car parking spaces’, ‘parking’,
& Generation Resource 1990 - 2021: Greenhouse Gas ‘parking-surface’, ‘roof/
Integrated Database • By creating a custom intensity factor Sources and Sinks in antenna’, and ‘land’ were
(“eGRID”) emission factors by region/country and site type from Canada, June 13, 2023. assumed to not use electricity
for U.S. sites, National sites that provided data outside of and thus emissions were not
Inventory Report factors the U.S. and Canada. IEA Electricity emission calculated. All ‘car parking
for sites in Canada, and the factors, 2023. spaces’, ‘parking’, and
In instances where partial year data was
IEA for country-based ‘parking-surface’ are
provided, the data was annualized to
locations outside of the U.S. assumed to be normal asphalt
account for a full year of provided data.
and Canada. painted spaces with no
covering or use of electricity.
Facilities Purchased Market-based method Refer to Purchased Electricity (Location- Activity data — Annual Energy Attribute Refer to Purchased Electricity
(Market-based) electricity based on actual and based method) Estimation Methodology. metered electricity usage Certificates (EACs), where (Location-based method)
(Market-based estimated purchased and any contractual applicable. Assumptions.
method) electricity consumption instruments held by WBD
(per location-based Utility-specific emission
method calculations) and factors, where applicable.
renewable energy
Association of Issuing
procurement at the facility-
Bodies (AIB) 2022 Residual
level.
Mix factors for facilities in
Annual metered electricity, the EU.
and any contractual
Green-e 2023 Residual Mix
instruments held by WBD
Emission rates (2021 data)
were multiplied by their
for facilities in the U.S.
associated market-based
emission factor. Location-based factors
where market-based
factors are unavailable.
2023
Sustainability
Report
65
Scope 2 Emissions Source Calculation Methodology Estimation Methodology Data Used Emissions Factors Exclusions Assumptions
Facilities Purchased Annual steam, heating, or In instances where it was determined that Activity data — Annual United States — ENERGY If no data was provided for
(Location-based and steam, heating, cooling purchased was steam, heating, or cooling was consumed steam, heating, or STAR Indirect GHG purchased steam, heating and
Market-based) and cooling multiplied by the EPA at the site but no data was provided, an cooling purchased Emissions Factors for all cooling, it was assumed that
(Location- emission factor database intensity factor was developed based on District Fuels. no steam, heating or cooling
based and based on the steam, heat facilities with actual data provided and was consumed at the site or
Market-based or cooling purchased. applied to facilities with no provided data. United Kingdom — facility.
methods) Greenhouse gas reporting:
In instances where partial year data was conversion factors 2023.
provided, the data was annualized to
International Energy Agency
account for the full year.
(IEA) Direct Combustion
Emission Factors, 2023.
Scope 1 and 2
Source Calculation Methodology Estimation Methodology Data Used Emissions Factors Exclusions Assumptions
Emissions
Productions N/A WBD productions were N/A — no estimations were performed. 373 feature film and TV/ Sustainable Production The following productions
mapped to the Sustainable streaming series Alliance (SPA) Carbon were excluded from the
Production Alliance (SPA) productions that met the Emissions of Film and inventory this year:
production categories, and following criteria: Television Production
the associated SPA carbon report. • Co-productions where
emissions averages were • In-house production WBD is not the lead
used to calculate the fuel (under WBD’s
and utilities emissions. WBD operational control) • 3rd-party purchased
content
productions include
• Co-productions — a
feature film and TV / production between • Licensed content
streaming series with
two or more
principal photography • Commissioned
production
wrapped in 2023. This content
companies — where
includes all episodes of TV/
WBD is the lead • News, feature
streaming series with a
producer documentaries,
season wrap date in 2023.
podcasts, animated
• Principal
feature films and
Note that fuel emissions photography
series, pilots, soap
from productions were wrapped in 2023
operas, and sports
allocated to Scope 1 and
utility emissions from WBD will continue to refine
productions were allocated its processes to collect
to Scope 2. SPA does not data that was excluded
specify the types of utilities from this year’s inventory.
included in its assumptions.
These may include utilities
other than purchased
electricity, steam, heating
and cooling such as water
and sewage.
2023
Sustainability
Report
66
Scope 3 Calculation Methodology
WBD’s Scope 3 inventory includes indirect GHG emissions (not included in Scope 2) that occur in WBD’s value chain. These emissions are inclusive of the upstream and downstream
emissions categories deemed material through an emissions screening process conducted in 2023, which are listed below:
Category 1: Purchased goods and services | Category 2: Capital goods | Category 3: Fuel- and Energy-related activities (not included in Scope 1 or 2) | Category 6: Business travel |
Category 7: Employee commuting
Note that all Scope 3 emissions used Global Warming Potentials (GWP) from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), Fourth Assessment Report (AR4) (aside from DEFRA fuel emission factors used in category 3, FERA which
used AR5 GWPs). No Scope 3 emissions were calculated using data from suppliers or other value chain partners.
Scope 3 Emissions Source Calculation Methodology Estimation Methodology Data Used Emissions Factors Exclusions Assumptions
Categories 1 & 2 Category 1 Spend-based methodology: A weighted average Activity data — Direct United States — Spend related to Licensed
— Purchased Emissions from purchased goods emissions factor based on purchasing activity in the Environmental Protection Content and Sports Rights was
goods and and services and capital goods WBD’s associated NAICS reporting year for goods Agency (EPA) Supply Chain excluded from the 2023 spend
services and were calculated using direct spend. codes was used to and services and capital GHG Emission Factors for to align with industry guidance
Category 2 The purchased goods and services calculate emissions for expenditures. U.S. Industries and and market trends.
— Capital and capital goods were mapped to WBD’s spend labelled as Commodities, V1.2, 2023.
goods a North American Industry “uncategorized.” Inflation adjustment factor
Classification System (NAICS) code —U.S. Bureau of Labor
of the EPA supply chain emission Statistics Consumer Price
factors (with margins) and Index (CPI) inflation
adjusted for inflation from the base calculations from reporting
year (2021) to align with 2023 year to base year.
spend. Only purchased goods and
services and capital goods in
alignment with the minimum
boundaries for Categories 1 and 2
were included.
Category 3 Fuel- and Average-data methodology: Refer to Scope 1 fuels and Activity data — Total Scope United Kingdom — Fuel and electricity from Refer to assumptions included
Energy-related Emissions were calculated using Scope 2 electricity and 1 fuel consumption and Greenhouse gas reporting: productions were excluded for Scope 1 stationary natural
Activities (not the total fuel, electricity, steam, purchased steam, heating Scope 2 location-based conversion factors 2023; from Scope 3, category 3. In gas, diesel, and propane and
included in heating and cooling consumed by and cooling for applicable and market-based Well to tank (WTT) - fuels, FY23, productions emissions Scope 2 electricity and
Scope 1 or WBD included in the Scope 1 and 2 estimation methodologies. electricity and purchased WTT - heat and steam, and were calculated using purchased steam, heating, and
Scope 2) calculations. The consumed steam, heating and cooling Transmission and Sustainable Production cooling for assumptions
electricity, steam, heating, cooling, consumption for the distribution factors. Alliance (SPA) averages; as a applicable to this category.
and fuel was multiplied by the reporting year, by country. result, no actual consumption
relevant well-to-tank (WTT) and International Energy values were provided to
transmission and distribution (T&D) Agency (IEA) Life Cycle calculate emissions from
emission factors. Upstream Emission productions for this category.
Factors, 2021 version.
International Energy
Agency (IEA) Fuel-cycle
Factors , 2021 version.
2023
Sustainability
Report
67
Estimation
Scope 3 Emissions Source Calculation Methodology Data Used Emissions Factors Exclusions Assumptions
Methodology
Category 6 Business travel Distance-based methodology: Emissions N/A — no Activity data — Distance United States — All rail travel was assumed to be inter-city and
from business travel were calculated using estimations were per mode of Environmental Protection used the U.S.-based emission factor of
total distance traveled by air, road-vehicle, performed transportation, total Agency (EPA) Emission for ‘Intercity Rail - National Average’ rather than
and rail when travel distance was provided. mileage reimbursements, GHG Inventories (Table 10), commuter rail.
Total distance for each trip was multiplied and number of hotel stays April 3, 2023.
by cradle-to-gate emission factors to provided by WBD’s global In FY23, all vehicles unless specifically
determine the emissions for each trip. travel management United States — EPA Supply categorized as an ‘EV’ or ‘Hybrid’ were
partner, preferred and Chain GHG Emission assumed to be ‘Passenger Car A’. When
Spend-based methodology: When only non-preferred rental car Factors for U.S. Industries vehicle type was not provided, vehicle type
spend was provided, emissions from providers, and private jet and Commodities, V1.2, was assumed to be passenger cars for all
business travel were calculated using the charter providers. 2023. vehicles and U.S. EPA Emission Factors were
reimbursed spend for the vehicle used for used for all countries for reimbursed personal
business travel and total spend from non DEFRA Upstream emission mileage.
preferred chartered flights. Total spend factors – hotel stays, 2023.
was multiplied by the relevant NAICS code
and adjusted for inflation from the base
year (2021) to align with 2023 spend.
Note: Emissions from hotel stays, which fall
outside of the GHGP minimum boundary,
were included within the category 6 total.
Category 7 Employee Average-data and distance methodology: N/A — no Activity data — Total United States — For offices without specific flexible work
commuting Emissions from employee commuting were estimations were number of employees who Environmental Protection policies, regular and project employee types
calculated by estimating the average performed work in each office location Agency (EPA) Emission for abided by the 3 days per week in office
distance traveled for each WBD employee and associated flexible GHG Inventories (Table 10), requirement outlined in WBD’s “Flexible Work
(regular, intern, project, and temporary) for work policy for each April 3, 2023. Policy.” WBD assumed employees worked 48
each location, based on nationally provided location. weeks per year, accounting for holidays and
commuting data by mode and distance. Anthesis white paper, vacation.
Total distance was then multiplied by days Commuting data — Estimating Energy
in office to determine average distance Average commuting type Consumption & GHG Temporary employees worked 3 days a week
commuted per year. Total distance was and time determined Emissions for Remote and abided by the 60% in office policy.
multiplied by EPA upstream and based on available country Workers, 2021.
To account for the average hours across the 3
downstream T&D for each transportation specific transportation
intern cohorts (Spring, Summer, and Fall), it
type. records.
was assumed that interns worked for 4
Note: Emissions from telecommuting, which months out of the year at 3.5 days per week
fall outside of the GHGP minimum (28 hours) and abided by the 60% in office
boundary, were included within the policy.
category 7 total.
All employees commuting by car were
assumed to be traveling in a Passenger Car A.
All rail travel was assumed to be inter-city and
used the U.S.-based emission factor of
‘Intercity Rail - National Average’ rather than
commuter rail.
2023
Sustainability
Report
68
Cautionary Statement Concerning
Forward-Looking Statements
Information set forth in this communication contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of
1995. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations, forecasts, and assumptions that involve risks and uncertainties and on information available to Warner Bros.
Discovery as of the date hereof. The Company’s actual results could differ materially from those stated or implied due to risks and uncertainties associated with its business, which include
the risk factors disclosed in the Company’s filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, including but not limited to the Company’s most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K
and reports on Form 10-Q and Form 8-K.
Forward-looking statements include statements regarding the Company’s expectations, beliefs, intentions or strategies regarding the future, and can be identified by forward-looking
words such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “could,” “continue,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “may,” “should,” “will” and “would” or similar words. Forward-looking statements include, without
limitation, statements regarding future financial and operating results, the Company’s plans, objectives, expectations and intentions, and other statements that are not historical facts.
Warner Bros. Discovery expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to disseminate any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statement contained herein to reflect any change
in the Company’s expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based.
2023
Sustainability
Report
69
https://wbd.com/esg/
https://ir.wbd.com/investor-relations/
April 2024
