2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
BUILDING TODAY,
FOR TOMORROW®
MATERIAL ENERGY COMMUNITIES
INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE 2024 Sustainability Report 2
IS REPURPOSED IS RENEWABLE ARE THRIVING
Table of Contents About WM
WM is North America’s leading provider of comprehensive environmental
solutions. Previously known as Waste Management and based in Houston,
Texas, WM is driven by commitments to put people first and achieve success
with integrity. The company, through its subsidiaries, provides collection,
2 INTRODUCTION recycling, and disposal services to millions of residential, commercial, industrial,
and municipal customers throughout the U.S. and Canada. With innovative
infrastructure and capabilities in recycling, organics processing, and renewable
Our Sustainability Ambitions energy, WM provides environmental solutions to, and collaborates with, its
customers in helping them pursue their sustainability goals. WM has the largest
Our 2023 Highlights disposal network and collection fleet in North America, is the largest recycler
of post-consumer materials, and is the leader in beneficial use of landfill
Foundational Progress gas, with a growing network of renewable natural gas plants and the most
landfill gas-to-electricity plants in North America. WM’s fleet includes over
Toward Our Goals
12,000 natural gas trucks — the largest heavy-duty natural gas truck fleet in
the industry in North America.
6 MATERIAL 11 ENERGY 17 COMMUNITIES About This Report
IS REPURPOSED I S RENEWABLE ARE THRIVING WM is committed to consistent and meaningful public disclosure and discussion
of our sustainability progress through the publication of our annual Sustainability
Report. This report generally covers our sustainability performance for 2023.
Enabling the Circular Economy Managing Our Climate Impact Keeping People & All data is for the year ended December 31, 2023, except where noted.
Communities Safe
Recovering More Materials Generating Lower-Carbon We publish updates in a few formats:
Renewable Energy Creating a Culture of Belonging • This Annual Sustainability Report: Details progress on our sustainability
Creating Value From
initiatives and our 2030 sustainability goals; available as a PDF
Organic Waste Operating Modern Landfills Supporting Our Communities
• Sustainability Data Center: Displays data related to many aspects of our
sustainability key performance indicators over the last three years and includes
Sustainability & Growing Our Alternative
metrics from the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) index
Environmental Solutions Fuel Fleet
• Our Sustainability Hub: Hosts updates on our sustainability initiatives and
disclosures aligned with or prepared with reference to multiple sustainability
reporting standards including Climate Brief/TCFD, Global Reporting Initiative
(GRI) and SASB indices, United Nations Sustainable Development Goals
24 A STRONG GOVERNING ǚ To learn more about WM and the company’s sustainability (UN SDGs) and Sustainability A to Z indices; as well as an archive of past reports
FRAMEWORK progress and solutions, visit Sustainability.WM.com.
Forward–Looking Statements
MATERIAL ENERGY COMMUNITIES
INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE 2024 Sustainability Report 3
IS REPURPOSED IS RENEWABLE ARE THRIVING
BOLD AMBITIONS FOR A A Message From Our CEO & CSO
SUSTAINABLE TOMORROW
For more than 50 years, WM has played an important role in keeping our communities clean and
safe. Today, we are focused on maximizing the value of resources and minimizing environmental
impact, while working toward a future where materials are repurposed, energy is renewable and
WM is North America’s leading provider of environmental and sustainability solutions. We provide
communities are thriving.
collection, recycling, disposal and sustainability services to millions of residential, commercial, industrial
and municipal customers throughout the U.S. and Canada to help pursue their sustainability challenges. This strong foundation has enabled us to become not only a service provider, but also a resource
our customers depend on to help them meet their evolving needs. The comprehensive environmental
For decades, we’ve played an integral role in keeping our communities clean, safe and functioning.
solutions we provide help our customers pursue waste diversion, recycling and sustainability goals.
Now, we are embarking on an ambitious next chapter as we focus on reinventing what’s possible
Now, as demand for recycled content and lower-emission energy sources grows, we are building the
for society to be more sustainable. We have centered our sustainability strategy on three core
circular solutions that help communities thrive.
ambitions: material is repurposed, energy is renewable and communities are thriving. With a clear
focus on our bold ambitions and planned investments in the infrastructure to bring them to life, To do this, we are executing sustainability growth investment plans of more than $2.8 billion from 2022
we’re reimagining what’s possible. through 2026. As the largest recycler in North America, we are upgrading and building new recycling
facilities with state-of-the-art equipment to expand recycling access to more communities and
businesses. With one of the largest landfill gas-to-renewable energy platforms in North America, we are
expanding our infrastructure to capture more methane that can be converted to renewable natural gas
and allocated to power communities and a portion of WM’s heavy-duty natural gas collection fleet.
WM’S Sustainability Ambitions
We made incredible progress on these investments in 2023, which contributed to us adding more
than 875,000 tons of recycling capacity, recovering more than 15 million tons of material and
generating more than 56 million MMBtus of renewable energy from gas captured at landfills.
MMaatteerriiaall iiss RREEPPUURRPPOOSSEEDD
We operate innovative recycling and waste
Material is REPURPOSED We also positively impacted more than 525,000 people through targeted social impact programs,
solutions that help fuel the continuous
WWee’’rree rreeiimmaaggiinniinngg aa cciirrccuullaarr eeccoonnoommyy.. reuse of materials. and we contributed nearly $18.7 million to charitable causes.
We’re reimagining a circular economy.
As WM works to serve our customers and make progress toward our sustainability goals,
we’ll continue to hold our own operations to high standards — anchored in our core values of
safety, environmental sustainability, customer service and Diversity & Inclusion, as well as in our
EEnneerrggyy iiss RREENNEEWWAABBLLEE
Energy is RENEWABLE We leverage advanced technologies to turn commitments to putting people first and achieving success with integrity.
WWee’’rree iinnnnoovvaattiinngg ffoorr cclliimmaattee pprrooggrreessss.. waste into energy that powers communities
We hope you enjoy learning more about our sustainability initiatives in our 2024 Sustainability Report.
We’re innovating for climate progress. and reduces emissions.
CCoommmmuunniittiieess aarree TTHHRRIIVVIINNGG We collaborate to strengthen the resiliency
Communities are THRIVING
of the diverse places where we live Jim Fish Tara Hemmer
WWee’’rree eemmppoowweerriinngg ppeeooppllee ttoo lliivvee ssuussttaaiinnaabbllyy.. and work. President and Senior Vice President and
We’re empowering people to live sustainably. Chief Executive Officer Chief Sustainability Officer
MATERIAL ENERGY COMMUNITIES
INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE 2024 Sustainability Report 4
IS REPURPOSED IS RENEWABLE ARE THRIVING
Our 2023 Highlights
Building Today, For Tomorrow®
Material is REPURPOSED Energy is RENEWABLE Communities are THRIVING
Over 15 million tons of material recovered Reduced our Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas (GHG) Invested $795 per employee on training and $10.4 million
emissions by 12% from a 2021 baseline toward Your Tomorrow educational benefits
Opened or upgraded eight recycling facilities
Utilized 43% of captured landfill gas for beneficial use Contributed nearly $2 million towards nonprofit organizations
Added nine organics processing facilities
supporting our Innovative Employment Pathways (IEP)® program
Generated 56,621,580 MMBtus of renewable energy
Increased material recovery capacity by 878K tons from 2022
Spent $691 million with diverse suppliers
for sale/use1
Provided recycling services to 74% of residential customers
Had 26.4% minority representation in supervisor
Achieved 66% conversion of our collection fleet to
Launched a digital tool that visualizes an organization's waste and above roles
alternative fuel vehicles
and carbon footprint, piloted across customers of various
Increased employee resource group membership by 35%
sizes and industries Allocated renewable natural gas to 47% of our alternative
from 2022
fuel vehicles
Expanded textile sorting pilots at two recycling facilities
Positively impacted 526,462 people through targeted social
Powered our facilities using 55% electricity from
impact programs
renewable sources2
Contributed $18.7 million to charitable causes
Opened one new renewable natural gas facility
Continued to maintain key safety performance metrics,
including Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) of 3.08
Increased applicant pool to help fill critical roles to serve
Business at a glance our customers
• 47,886 team members • 102 recycling facilities • 800+ community organizations and
programs supported through monetary
• $20.4 billion revenue • 49 organics processing facilities
and in-kind contributions
• 263 operating landfills • 136 renewable energy projects3
• ~13,500 acres actively managed through
• 18,347 collection vehicles • 199 natural gas fueling stations 1 Landfill gas converted to energy is a measure of energy produced at renewable energy facilities
certified wildlife habitat projects on WM landfills, inclusive of WM-owned-and-operated and third-party.
2 Renewable electricity is comprised of renewable energy credits (RECs) generated from WM landfill
gas-to-electricity facilities and then retired against WM's direct electricity usage.
3 Project count is inclusive of WM-owned-and-operated and third-party facilities on WM landfills.
MATERIAL ENERGY COMMUNITIES
INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE 2024 Sustainability Report 5
IS REPURPOSED IS RENEWABLE ARE THRIVING
Foundational Progress Toward Our Goals
GOALS Units 2021 2022 2023
Circularity Tons 15,337,456 14,831,559 15,237,738 3% increase in material recovery since 2022. The slight
Increase recovery of materials by 60% to 25 million tons recovered decline in material recovery from our 2021 baseline is
per year by 2030, including an interim milestone of a due in part to facility upgrades that require temporary
Material is 25% increase by 2025 shutdowns during construction.
REPURPOSED
Climate Impact Metric 17,158,208 15,460,480 15,061,702 12% reduction in Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions from our
Reduce absolute Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions 42% tons CO e 2021 baseline. We continue to increase the total volume
2
by 2031 from a 2021 base year4 of landfill gas captured and our total amount of renewable
Energy is energy generated from landfill gas, with the former at a
RENEWABLE slightly faster rate.
Target beneficial use of 65% of our captured landfill Percent LFG to 45% 45% 43%
gas (LFG) by 2026 beneficial use
Safety Injuries/ 3.00 3.02 3.08 Increase in TRIR is due in part to safety profiles of
200,000 new acquisitions. We continue to emphasize our safety
Reduce Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) annually,
work hours vision ‘Get Home Safe Every Day’ which is focused on
targeting 2.0 by 2030; and continued focus on
Communities safe actions and proactive safety protocol assessments.
prevention of serious injuries
are THRIVING
Diversity & Inclusion Female 19.4% 18.9% 18.8% We continue to cultivate a culture of belonging through
representation reducing barriers for perspective candidates to supporting
Represent the communities we serve, including
career aspirations by emphasizing the importance of
opportunities for:
training and education opportunities for all employees.
Minority 21.5% 22.9% 26.4%
• female representation in frontline to leadership roles
representation
• minority representation in supervisor and above roles5
Social Impact People 302,998 526,462 Since 2022, we have positively impacted 829,460 people,
Positively impact 10 million people in our communities positively cumulatively, through targeted social impact programs.
through targeted social impact programs by 2030, impacted Charitable contributions in 2023 represented 0.8% of our
using the equivalent of 2% of our net income6 2023 net income.
Charitable $14.3 million $15.9 million $18.7 million7
contributions
4 The target boundary includes land-related emissions and removals from bioenergy feedstocks.
5 Minority representation references both racial and ethnic characteristics self-identified by team members for U.S. workforce only.
6 Total annual charitable contributions are compared to the same year’s annual net income.
7 Expanded reporting in 2023 to include donations that support select workforce development programs and earmarked local donations.
MATERIAL ENERGY COMMUNITIES
INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE 22002244 SSuussttaaiinnaabbiilliittyy RReeppoorrtt 66
IS REPURPOSED IS RENEWABLE ARE THRIVING
MATERIAL OUR IMPACT
Opened or upgraded eight recycling
IS REPURPOSED facilities, bringing WM’s recycling facilities
count to 102
Added nine organics processing facilities,
WM plays an essential role in the circular economy
bringing WM’s organics processing facilities
by investing in and operating innovative recycling
count to 49
solutions that fuel the reuse of materials.
Launched a digital tool that visualizes waste
As demand for post-consumer recycled materials grows, WM is
data and piloted it with large and small
innovating to expand access to recycling, enabling more materials
customers across multiple industries
to be repurposed and reimagined as a resource. We’re leveraging
state-of-the-art technology and automation in our recycling facilities,
Expanded textile sorting pilots at two
piloting solutions for hard-to-recycle materials such as plastic film,
recycling facilities
identifying new reuse opportunities for organic materials and
helping events, stadiums and businesses improve circular material
management. In addition, for years WM has been uncovering
opportunities to educate consumers through our Recycle Right® LOOKING AHEAD
program. Check out our latest videos online.
Continuing to make strides on our plans
to invest over $1.4 billion in approximately
40 new and upgraded recycling facilities between
2022 and 2026, which is expected to add
2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2.8 million incremental tons of capacity annually
15M+ tons 74% Continuing expansion of organics recovery
including composting, anaerobic digestion
of material recovered in 2023 of WM residential customers
and biosolids processing
have recycling services
Continuing to focus on consumer behavior and
education through our Recycle Right® program
878K tons 3%
increase in material recovery increase in recovery of Piloting equipment to automate textile
capacity from 2022 materials from 2022 sorting by fiber type
16,975,323
MATERIAL ENERGY COMMUNITIES
INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE 22002244 SSuussttaaiinnaabbiilliittyy RReeppoorrtt 77
IS REPURPOSED IS RENEWABLE ARE THRIVING
Enabling the Turning Bottles Into Apparel
MATERIALS RECOVERED BY TYPE (TONS)8 WM supports the circular economy by finding innovative ways to capture
Circular Economy
and reuse materials. For example, we collaborate with recycled polyester
brand, REPREVE®, to transform some of the plastic bottles we recover
As the largest recycler of post-consumer material in North America, Paper / Fiber Plastic into clothing, shoes and accessories — including uniforms for WM team
WM has the infrastructure and network to drive circular economy members. For over a decade we have worked with REPREVE® to capture
solutions. Our dedicated workforce, advanced technologies and network 2023 7,880,038 2023 510,254 more than 20 billion bottles which were transformed into textiles. At the
of facilities allows us to efficiently capture recyclables and organics 2024 WM Phoenix Open, we debuted a collaboration with REPREVE® and
and process them into valuable commodities for reuse. Demand for 2022 7,371,473 2022 464,505 Peter Millar®. See more online.
post-consumer recycled materials is expected to grow with new
2021 7,780,337 2021 516,717
regulations requiring recycled content in products and packaging.
1 2 3
We are making strides on executing on our investment in recycling
infrastructure, which aims to enhance safety, speed and sorting
capabilities, with the ultimate goal of increasing the amount and quality
Organics Metal
of material we recover for reuse. These upgrades, however, take time Customer puts WM picks up and Recyclables are sorted
and require facilities to temporarily shut down during construction, plastic bottle in transports bottle to and plastic bottles get
which explains the plateau or slight decline in material recovery in 2023 3,761,350 2023 505,220 recycling bin recycling facility baled together
2023. As a result of our investments, we expect this temporary
2022 3,801,595 2022 468,806
decline to stabilize by 2025, positioning us to meet our customer’s
needs well into the future. 2021 3,919,198 2021 417,452 6 5 4
WM is executing on its plans to invest
Bottles are melted, dried
over $1.4 billion Other9 GGllaassss and chopped into flakes Bales go to
and then made Bottles are sorted REPREVE® facility in
in recycling infrastructure from 2022-2026 into resin and washed North Carolina
2023 2,028,754 2023 552,122
GOAL 2021 Baseline 2023 Progress
2022 2,179,065 2022 546,114
Increase recovery 15,337,456 15,237,738 7 8 9
of materials by 60% 2021 2,118,996 2021 584,756
tons recovered
to 25 million tons RECYCLED
per year by 2030, Flat with baseline MATERIALS
including an interim as we advance Resin is transformed Yarn is turned into WM purchases uniforms
milestone of a 25% recycling infrastructure 8 For a complete list of material types recycled, see our Sustainability Data Center. into high-performance clothing, shoes and made from recycled
9 O ther includes fly ash, construction and demolition waste, e-waste, lamps, batteries and other recycled yarn accessories polyester fabric
increase by 2025 specialty materials.
MATERIAL ENERGY COMMUNITIES
INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE 22002244 SSuussttaaiinnaabbiilliittyy RReeppoorrtt 88
IS REPURPOSED IS RENEWABLE ARE THRIVING
Recovering More Materials
CLEANER RECYCLING STREAMS EXPANDING ACCESS TO RECYCLING
IN NEW MARKETS
WM has the largest network of recycling facilities across North America, Since 2019, WM’s collaboration with the City of Philadelphia
and we are growing this network to help expand access to recycling has helped residents reduce contamination in their recycling In 2023, WM opened a new single-stream recycling facility in
services to more communities and customers and increase utilization streams, leading to cost savings for the city and a Cleveland, Ohio, with state-of-the-art technology including
of our facilities’ capacity. In an effort to capture more material and higher-quality recycling stream for WM. This initiative glass recovery equipment, optical sorters, non-wrapping screens
improve the efficiency of our operations, we are upgrading and building leverages multiple outreach methods, getting our educational and ballistic separators. This facility is intended to support the
facilities with advanced technologies, such as optical sorters. We are materials in front of customers through mailers, local area’s recycling programs to expand the amount of material
also working with national brokers to provide services in areas where commercials, broadcast news features on how to recycle captured and produce a higher-quality product for end markets.
we do not currently have facilities. and fact sheets in public places, such as public transit. The facility can process up to 12,000 tons of recyclables per
WM collaborates with the city to ensure these educational month. This new facility provides the community with essential
We are committed to growing domestic markets for recycled
materials are accurate. WM’s recycling leadership team meets recycling services it previously lacked. The site’s community
commodities. In 2020, WM issued a policy stating plastics collected
with the City of Philadelphia monthly to identify common education center welcomes visitors to learn more about recycling.
on residential routes and processed at our single-stream recycling
contaminants and the most common areas with contamination
facilities will not be exported outside North America. WM has found
to provide tailored guidance and review quarterly recycling
customers share our vision for circularity, and we are proud to be able
composition audits. The City of Philadelphia also created a
to find domestic outlets for recycled materials. Our objective is to find
group of S.W.E.E.P. Officers who are tasked with trying to
domestic customers for a variety of plastic types as well as paper and
cardboard. Nearly 80% of WM’s recycled commodities are purchased by ensure residential recycling bins do not have materials WM CIRCULAR SOLUTIONS IN ACTION
cannot recycle at the Philadelphia Recycling Facility. Through
customers in North America, with the remaining 20% being exported to
For over 20 years, WM has worked with Pratt Industries, the
these collaboration and education efforts, the community
other countries to expand the reuse of materials.
world’s largest privately-held, 100%-recycled, paper and packaging
of Philadelphia has seen a reduction of contamination in
company, to drive change towards a circular economy. On average,
Growing Our Recycling Capacity recycling from 25% in 2019 to approximately 20% in 2023.
half of a residential recycling bin is comprised of mixed paper
As part of continuing to execute on our planned investments of over $1.4 and cardboard, posing a great opportunity for recycling. Through
billion in recycling infrastructure, the following facilities opened in 2023. commercial and residential curbside recycling programs, WM
collects paper and cardboard from our customers. The collected
Eight total new or upgraded facilities:
materials are sorted and baled at a WM recycling facility. Pratt
• Five single-stream residential
Industries purchases some of this recycled commodity and their mills
• Two commercial process it into a new cardboard product. With Pratt’s investments
and advancements in technology, they continue to drive strong
• One construction and demolition
demand for recycling products from residential curbside programs,
Of these, two opened in new markets while six involved upgrades including pizza boxes. The new recycled content cardboard can
to existing recycling technology, enabling greater material recovery. be transformed into many products such as new pizza boxes and
packing and shipping boxes. In fact, for the last three years, the zero
waste bins at the WM Phoenix Open came from Pratt Industries.
ǚ Learn more about how we collaborate with
customers to increase material recovery.
MATERIAL ENERGY COMMUNITIES
INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE 22002244 SSuussttaaiinnaabbiilliittyy RReeppoorrtt 99
IS REPURPOSED IS RENEWABLE ARE THRIVING
Creating Value
GROWING OUR CAPACITY TO PROCESS ORGANICS
From Organic Waste
To help meet growing customer demand for composting and yard
waste collection, WM acquired a few composting facilities in the
WM is a leading solutions provider in organics recycling and composting. Twin Cities, Minnesota area in 2023. With capacity to process more
As we experience growing demand from customers looking to meet than 25,000 tons of food waste and 80,000 tons of yard waste, this
sustainability goals and adhere to increasing regulatory requirements represents a sizable addition to WM’s organics recycling capabilities
around food waste diversion, we are also strategically growing this in the Midwest. With this acquisition, we hope to extend services to
business. Through building new facilities, investing in technological thousands of WM customers and help the state of Minnesota meet its
innovation and the recent completion of several acquisitions, we are goal to recycle 75% of its waste by 2030.
driving organics recycling and composting solutions that can benefit
communities by diverting materials from landfills, reducing emissions
OUR ORGANICS NETWORK
and enriching soil.
As we work to expand our organics solutions, we are both
In 2023, we opened nine organics processing facilities,
innovating to expand feedstocks we can process and finding
bringing our total number to nearly 50:
new markets for material reuse.
• Seven composting facilities that turn food scraps and yard waste
• 33 Composting Facilities transform food waste into compost,
into high-quality compost which can be added to soil
a nutrient-rich soil amendment
• Two FOG2FuelSM facilities which convert fats, oils and grease (FOG),
• Three CORe® Facilities create EBS®, a bioslurry used to
typically from restaurants and food manufacturers, into feedstock
enhance the efficiency of renewable energy generation at
for biodiesel production
wastewater treatment plants
In addition, we are advancing the development of two new CORe® • Two Organics Extraction Facilities separate the organic material
facilities as well as a large-scale anaerobic digestion facility to further from municipal solid waste to create a product that is composted
expand our food waste service offerings. While WM has expanded and/or anaerobically digested
organics solutions and services, increased volumes processed through
• Two FOG2FuelSM Facilities convert FOG, typically from
new facilities were offset by fewer materials from one-time weather
restaurants and food manufacturers, into a feedstock for
events in 2023, resulting in a slight volume decrease of 1%.
biodiesel production
• Five Wood Processing Sites grind bulk loads of wood waste for
beneficial use including erosion control and mulch production
3,761,350
• Four Green Waste Processing Sites grind or pre-process yard
total organic tons recovered in 2023
and green wastes prior to further processing and composting
at auxiliary facilities
MATERIAL ENERGY COMMUNITIES
INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE 22002244 SSuussttaaiinnaabbiilliittyy RReeppoorrtt 1100
IS REPURPOSED IS RENEWABLE ARE THRIVING
Sustainability & Helping Customers Set Actionable Goals
TEAMING UP WITH MLB
WM is continuing to develop a digital tool to provide customers with
Environmental Solutions
visibility into their waste and recycling data, including the impact different
On Earth Day 2024, we announced that WM is now an Official
recycling and disposal options have on their overall sustainability metrics.
Sustainability Partner of Major League Baseball (MLB). This is one
Customers can upload and visualize data, compare performance across
WM’s Sustainability and Environmental Solutions team strategizes of the first collaborations of its kind between an environmental
locations and business units, and customize the tool with specific
with businesses and organizations across industries to help identify, services company and a professional team sports league.
sustainability objectives and targets. The tool will provide customers
measure, address and manage the short- and long-term sustainability
WM will offer advisory support to all 30 MLB Clubs through
with waste diversion and greenhouse gas (GHG) estimates to help inform
impacts of their operations. In 2023, we focused on expanding
2028, along with helping MLB design its sustainability strategy
meaningful sustainability goals and track progress. Through the tool,
service to new customer segments, including mid-tier businesses
across the league’s operations and Jewel Events.
customers can also engage with WM’s team to receive guidance and
that may be interested in leveraging our remote-based service model.
strategic support. This tool was piloted with businesses, small and large, Major League Baseball trademarks and copyrights are used
Over the last decade, WM has worked with professional sports across multiple industry sectors in 2023, and is currently being scaled to with permission of Major League Baseball. Visit MLB.com.
leagues, teams, venues and other large events to manage and track become available for all WM customers.
their environmental impact. An annual example of WM’s expertise is
the WM Phoenix Open, ”THE GREENEST SHOW ON GRASS.” In 2023,
this group worked with 11 stadiums, 16 large-scale events and four
A MORE SUSTAINABLE SPORTS INDUSTRY
professional sports leagues to help them work toward meeting their
own sustainability objectives. Learn more about WM's work to make In 2023, we continued to work with
sports more sustainable. the Milwaukee Brewers to develop
their sustainability program through
Our decades of experience, paired with our in-house innovation
hands-on support with strategic
capabilities, enable WM to evaluate, develop and implement solutions
planning, benchmarking GHG emissions
for customer sustainability challenges. For example, WM is equipped
and designing new employee training
with measurement tools that can help customers as they shift to
tools. With a focus on materials
measuring and mitigating their environmental impact, such as our
management, WM also supported
digital dashboard currently being scaled for integration to WM’s
re-integrating food recovery from kitchen operations, increasing
customer reporting platform.
recycling access across internal ballpark operations, evaluating
options for an organics collection program and expanding the
collection of thin plastics. WM also provided support through
ǚ Learn more about Sustainability
analyzing GHG emissions from food and beverage procurement
and Environmental Solutions.
activities and recommended actions the Brewers could implement
to potentially help reduce GHG emissions in their supply chain.
These steps can help customers to set a crucial foundation for
any organization’s sustainability strategy, and WM admires the
Brewers commitment to step up to the plate and build a plan for
a more sustainable future.
MATERIAL ENERGY COMMUNITIES
INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE 2024 Sustainability Report 11
IS REPURPOSED IS RENEWABLE ARE THRIVING
ENERGY OUR IMPACT
Reduced our Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions
IS RENEWABLE by 12% from a 2021 baseline
Allocated renewable natural gas to 47% of
our alternative fuel vehicles
WM is innovating to reimagine the modern landfill,
transform landfill gas into renewable energy and
Opened one new renewable natural
help fuel our own fleet and communities. gas facility
At WM, we envision a future where resources become renewable energy Powered our facilities using 55% electricity
as part of a low-carbon, circular economy. Long-term growth potential from renewable sources11
exists in the capture of landfill gas for beneficial use applications which
leverage methane content to generate renewable energy. To help build
that future, we have significantly advanced and are continuing to deliver LOOKING AHEAD
on our plan to invest over $1.4 billion between 2022 and 2026 to build
Aiming to generate an additional 25 million
20 new WM-owned facilities that will convert landfill gas into pipeline-
MMBtus of renewable natural gas by 202612
quality renewable natural gas (RNG). By capturing and converting landfill
gas into RNG, we can allocate a portion to our own fleet and offer a
Aiming to allocate renewable natural gas to
lower-carbon energy source to communities and customers. We are also
conducting cutting-edge research on landfill gas measurement with the 100% of our compressed natural gas fleet
aim of capturing more gas and continuing to improve decarbonization by 202613
efforts in the years to come.
Planning to open 17 additional renewable
2023 HIGHLIGHTS natural gas facilities by 2026
56,621,580 43% Continuing to improve landfill gas emissions
measurement and reporting by piloting
MMBtus of renewable of captured landfill gas utilized
emerging technology
energy generated10 for beneficial use
Launching voluntary surface-emissions
66% monitoring at landfills
of our collection fleet consisted
of alternative fuel vehicles
10 Landfill gas converted to energy is a measure of energy produced at renewable energy facilities on WM landfills, 11 Renewable electricity is comprised of renewable energy credits (RECs) generated from WM
inclusive of WM-owned-and-operated and third-party. landfill gas-to-electricity facilities and then retired against WM's direct electricity usage.
12 From a 2021 baseline.
13 In the U.S. only.
MATERIAL ENERGY COMMUNITIES
INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE 2024 Sustainability Report 12
IS REPURPOSED IS RENEWABLE ARE THRIVING
Managing Our Helping Customers Meet Their Emissions Goals WM’S GHG EMISSIONS
(Mt CO e)16, 17
To further support decarbonization, our sustainability efforts can help 2
Climate Impact our customers reduce their own carbon footprints. WM aims to play a
key role in the transition to a low-carbon economy by: offering resource 89%
Scope 1
recovery, expanding and opening new markets for recycled content and
As we seek to enable a future where energy is renewable, we have 14,938,730
capturing and processing landfill gas to generate renewable energy.
committed to reducing our direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions
and developing solutions for our customers on their transition to a We also offer support to customers looking to meet their sustainability 16,873,456 Scope 2 (market-based)18 <1%
objectives by identifying opportunities for hard-to-recycle items and
low-carbon economy. Total 122,972
creating circular solutions for managing recyclable materials.
An estimated 90% of WM’s carbon footprint comes from Scope 1 Scope 3 11%
GHG emissions, which includes landfills and fuel used by our fleet.
WM is the first U.S.-based company in the solid waste 1,811,754
To meet our climate target, which has been approved and validated by
the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi), we are investing in landfill management utilities sector to have a near-term Scope 1 2021 Total 2022 Total 2023 Total
cover and capping systems, landfill gas capture and emissions and 2 GHG emissions target14 validated and approved by 20,515,951 16,948,574 16,873,456
measurement, as well as continuing to transition our fleet to run on the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi), in line with
lower-carbon fuels. WM also develops, operates and promotes projects
limiting global warming to 1.5°C. In 2023, we reduced our
to beneficially use landfill gas through our renewable energy business. Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 12% compared to our 2021 AVOIDED EMISSIONS (Mt CO e)
2
Our long-term growth potential to capture landfill gas and utilize the
Total
baseline, showing progress toward achieving this goal.
energy potential to support fueling vehicles and electrifying homes allows 2023 1,979,621 28,318,966 21,699,308
WM to continue our goal of being a leader in beneficial use of landfill gas. 51,997,895
PROGRESS TOWARD OUR CLIMATE GOALS Renewable energy generation
ǚ Read more in our Climate Brief.
Reuse and recycling of materials
In 2023, we took meaningful action toward our climate impact goal Carbon permanently sequestered in landfills
by investing in landfill gas collection and capture systems, increasing
GOALS 2021 Baseline 2023 Progress the total volume of landfill gas captured by nearly 5%, opening one
new RNG facility, allocating more RNG to our collection fleet and
Reduce absolute 17,158,208 15,061,702 5% increase in total landfill gas captured, and landfill gas to
continuing to explore emissions measurement technologies. We also
Scope 1 and 2 GHG beneficial reuse remained level in 2023 over the previous year
emissions 42% by 2031 Mt CO e increased our total number of trucks running on alternative fuels and
2
from a 2021 base year decommissioned older diesel vehicles.
12%
(science-based target)14 Three times more emissions were avoided, through our
In 2023, we increased both our total amount of renewable energy
reduction from baseline renewable energy generation, material recovery services and
generated from landfill gas and total volume of landfill gas captured,
but the latter at a slightly faster rate. This progress with landfill gas carbon sequestration in landfills, than WM generated from
Target beneficial use 45% 43%15
collection and capture systems will help support planned expansions our direct operations in 202319
of 65% of our captured
of renewable energy facilities.
landfill gas by 2026
16 Further details on WM’s GHG emissions can be found in the Sustainability Data Center.
17 Percentages may not add up to 100% due to rounding.
14 The target boundary includes land-related emissions and removals from bioenergy feedstocks. 18 Market-based emissions are WM’s emissions from electricity minus renewable energy certificates.
15 Decrease in percentage of landfill gas beneficial use due to increased total volume of landfill gas captured and We calculate total emissions and emissions reductions using market-based emissions.
renewable energy generated, but the former at a slightly faster rate. 19 Calculated by dividing total avoided emissions by direct (Scope 1 and 2) emissions.
MATERIAL ENERGY COMMUNITIES
INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE 2024 Sustainability Report 13
IS REPURPOSED IS RENEWABLE ARE THRIVING
Generating Lower-Carbon From Biogas to Lower-Carbon Fuel
Renewable Energy
Landfills emit biogas, which is roughly 50% methane and 50% CO ,
2
as the organic materials within decompose. Once captured, our process
Powering Our Fleet Powering Our Communities Other Beneficial Use
isolates the methane and removes contaminants so it can be used
Landfill gas is processed into Landfill gas is used to generate Landfill gas can be used for heat or
beneficially as an alternative to fossil fuels. WM has been a renewable
RNG that is allocated to WM's electricity which is distributed in industrial processing equipment at
energy player for nearly 40 years and plans to continue making alternative fuel fleet. through the power grid. WM’s facilities or third-party sites.
investments to maximize the utilization of landfill gas for the purpose
of generating renewable energy.
There are multiple opportunities for utilizing landfill gas including
electricity generation, direct use by third parties as heating fuel and
processing it into renewable natural gas. Renewable energy from landfill
56
million MMBtus
gas provides our fleet, communities and industrial customers with a The equivalent of The equivalent of The equivalent of more than
lower-carbon energy source. This helps us reduce our greenhouse of landfill gas collected at WM 14+ million 310,000+ 175,000+
gas emissions and users of the renewable energy reduce emissions by landfills in 2023 and converted
into renewable energy gallons of diesel replaced20 homes powered annually21 tons of coal per year eliminated22
displacing the use of virgin fossil fuels. Watch our video to learn more.
In 2023, we debuted one new WM-owned renewable natural gas (RNG)
facility, Eco Vista in Springdale, Arkansas. At the end of 2023, there
were 136 beneficial use projects in operation at our landfills, of which
nearly 68% are fully owned by WM, with the remaining being third-party
projects. We have already begun connecting the environmental benefits
from RNG with third parties, including cities and universities, to support
OUR NEW ECO VISTA FACILITY OPENS
their decarbonization efforts.
In 2023, the $35-million RNG facility at our Eco Vista landfill
became operational in Springdale, Arkansas. At more than
Our East Oak RNG facility in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, 14,000 square feet, the facility is anticipated to generate
around 750,000 MMBtus of RNG per year. This site will
received an environmental excellence award from
capture the biogas through gas collection and control
Keep Oklahoma Beautiful for our innovative abilities
systems, process it into pipeline-quality RNG and then deliver
to produce renewable energy from waste. In 2023, the
it to the local pipeline system. This can be used to power
East Oak RNG facility generated more than 580,000
homes and a portion of the RNG produced at the facility will
MMBtus of RNG. be allocated to WM’s alternative fleet vehicles.
20 MMBtus of RNG generated are converted to Diesel Gallons Equivalent using conversion factors from Argonne National Laboratory.
21 MMBtus of landfill gas generated for power and off-site power projects at WM landfills and third parties is converted to state-average household electricity consumption based on U.S. Department of Energy data.
22 MMBtus of landfill gas generated for other beneficial use include on-site leachate processing and other industrial applications. Gas volumes are converted to equivalent tons of coal based on heat content.
MATERIAL ENERGY COMMUNITIES
INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE 2024 Sustainability Report 14
IS REPURPOSED IS RENEWABLE ARE THRIVING
Operating
Landfill Gas Emissions
In 2023, we also digitized our landfill capital planning tool to support
Modern Landfills the planning of landfill investments and model the GHG emissions 2021 2022 2023
reduction potential from specific activities. The primary function of this
Landfill Gas Emissions
tool is to inform our GHG reduction strategy and capital investment 15,299,582 13,743,239 13,377,373
(Mt COe)
WM operates more than 250 landfills that are highly engineered decisions, taking into account the multiple benefits from capital 2
and managed for the disposal of solid waste. These sites utilize improvement projects. This work to further modernize landfills lays the Total Landfill Gas Captured 78% 80% 80%
modern technology such as groundwater monitoring, landfill foundation for more data-driven efficiency initiatives in the future. With
Flared 55% 55% 57%
gas collection & control systems and cover materials. WM more data around emissions, we hope to expand capture of landfill gas
plans to continue to modernize our landfills through strategic and make decisions at the site level with the health and safety of our Recovered for
45% 45% 43%
investments in managing landfills and measuring emissions. communities in mind. Beneficial Use*
* In 2023 we increased both the total volume of landfill gas captured and the
Managing Landfill Emissions
amount of renewable energy generated, but the former at a slightly faster rate.
We employ three key approaches to minimize and manage emissions from our landfills:
1 Cover Systems 2 Final Capping Systems 3 Landfill Gas Capture
Daily Cover Final Capping Gas Collection
• Used on surface of active landfill working face at day’s end to control and • A cover system is placed over the landfill once it stops accepting waste • Gas collection and control systems are
minimize emissions, odors, fires, pests, dust and litter installed where waste filling has completed
• Minimizes stormwater infiltration and enhances landfill gas capture
• Minimizes infiltration of precipitation, reducing leachate. Improves operations • Captured landfill gas can be turned
and reduces costs into renewable energy, reducing our Landfill Gas-to-
carbon footprint and creating jobs Energy Facility
Topsoil
Interim Cover
• >1 foot cover material Final Cap Drainage Blanket
added to full section of Components
Geomembrane
active face to prepare
for final capping Compacted Clay
Working Face
• This is the active
Gas Extraction Well
waste disposal area
Gas Collection Pipe
MATERIAL ENERGY COMMUNITIES
INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE 2024 Sustainability Report 15
IS REPURPOSED IS RENEWABLE ARE THRIVING
Measuring Emissions Leveraging
WM is also exploring new tools and technologies to help optimize
the accuracy of our emissions measurement. In 2023, we carried Renewable Electricity
out pilot programs on four measurement technologies to better
quantify fugitive emissions, consisting of fixed ground sensors,
Since committing to use renewable electricity to power our own facilities,
drones, planes and satellites.
we have progressively increased our percentage of renewable electricity,
Currently, we deploy satellite technology at 25 waste sites, reaching 55% in 2023 by retiring renewable energy certificates (RECs)
including municipal solid waste and construction and demolition generated from our own landfill gas-to-electricity facilities. We also
facilities. In addition, we utilize multiple sensor technology at continue to explore opportunities to increase energy efficiency in our
seven of those 25 sites. facilities. For example, in 2023 we carried out 200 lighting retrofit
projects, replacing existing fluorescent bulbs with energy efficient LED
lighting. These projects are estimated to save over 11 million kWh of
electricity annually.23 While our Scope 2 emissions makes up less than 1%
COLLABORATING ON EMISSIONS MEASUREMENT of our total GHG emissions, executing on projects like these helps WM
continue to reduce our own emissions from our operations.
WM has engaged with several industry stakeholders to improve
knowledge and data around landfill emissions measurements.
In November of 2023, WM hosted a controlled methane
55% of electricity
release study at our Petrolia Landfill in Ontario, Canada.
The study, which was funded by the Environmental Research powering our facilities was renewable in 2023
& Education Foundation (EREF) and conducted by researchers
from St. Francis Xavier University, assessed a combination
of technologies and methodologies for methane detection
and quantification in a landfill environment. A number of
commercial technology vendors as well as researchers from
academia and Environment and Climate Change Canada (ECCC)
participated in the study.
This work built on past studies including ECCC research staff’s
deployment of emissions measurement technology at the WM’s
Petrolia and Twin Creeks Landfills. WM continues to engage
with a variety of stakeholders to develop methods and best
practices for deploying methane measurement technologies
at our landfills.
23 Annual electricity savings are based on estimates of existing fixture kWh usage compared to kWh usage of new lights.
MATERIAL ENERGY COMMUNITIES
INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE 2024 Sustainability Report 16
IS REPURPOSED IS RENEWABLE ARE THRIVING
Growing Our
OUR COLLECTION FLEET
RNG 12,119
Alternative Fuel Fleet
Alternative fuel vehicles
in collection fleet;
66% of the total fleet
Our collection fleet of more than 18,000 vehicles connects customers
with our services. As an essential component of our business, we strive 18,347
to make our fleet as efficient, reliable and safe as possible. According
Collection 47%
to the U.S. EPA, natural gas vehicles can reduce tailpipe GHG emissions
vehicles
by 20% and emit up to 90% less nitrogen oxide (NO X) than traditionalR NG of the alternative fuel
diesel vehicles, resulting in less air pollution. For decades we have vehicles are allocated RNG;
31% of the total fleet
been transitioning our collection fleet from diesel vehicles to lower-
emissions natural gas vehicles. WM has had a significant reduction in
GHG emissions associated with our fleet since 2010.
In 2023, 66% of our collection fleet consisted of alternative fuel
EXPLORING ELECTRIC VEHICLES (EVS)
CARBON INTENSITY25
vehicles, approaching our objective for 70% of our fleet to be
We continue to explore emerging technologies across business lines
(EMISSIONS PER 1,000 MILES DRIVEN)
alternative fuel vehicles by 2025. As part of this transition, WM has
to meet specific business needs, even before they are commercially
worked to remove over 1,000 older diesel vehicles from our collection
viable. One such technology is electric heavy-duty industrial vehicles,
3.0
fleet. With over 12,000 natural gas trucks, WM has the largest
like waste collection trucks. We have launched eight pilots on electric
alternative fuel fleet in the industry. In addition to lower-emission
heavy-duty collection trucks with different manufacturers and vehicle
natural gas vehicles, WM is actively exploring emerging alternative fuel 2.5 2.3
models across the country. We have also already onboarded 20 Ford
technologies, including electric and hydrogen-powered vehicles, as we
F-150 Lightning electric pickup trucks to our non-collection fleet,
work to further reduce emissions and pursue our sustainability goals. with more to be added. 2.0
We also added 18 natural gas fueling stations, bringing our fueling
While electric cars are becoming more commonplace as
station total to nearly 200. These natural gas fueling stations support
passenger vehicles, significant challenges remain to operationalize 1.5
WM’s ability to fuel our fleet with compressed natural gas. As we
heavy-duty electric vehicles. Current options for heavy-duty
continue to grow our alternative fuel fleet, we also continue to allocate
electric vehicles lack sufficient range, hauling capacity and proven
1.0
renewable natural gas to a portion of our collection fleet with the aim
experience for our operations. In addition, charging infrastructure
to allocate renewable natural gas to 100% of our compressed natural
is not yet widely available. Despite these challenges, we have an
gas fleet by 2026.24 This contributes to WM’s ongoing commitment eye on the future. WM continues to test these and other vehicles 0.5
to help keep our communities clean and safe by providing critical
to help us find new ways to reduce our carbon footprint, meet
collection services and simultaneously lowering air emissions.
regulatory requirements and continue to provide customers with
0.0
reliable service. 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
40% 25 Carbon intensity metrics include Scope 1 emissions normalized to 1,000 miles driven.
estimated reduction in fleet emissions since 2010
24 In the U.S. only.
MATERIAL ENERGY COMMUNITIES
INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE 2024 Sustainability Report 17
IS REPURPOSED IS RENEWABLE ARE THRIVING
COMMUNITIES OUR IMPACT
Invested $795 per employee on training and $10.4
ARE THRIVING million toward Your Tomorrow educational benefits
Continued to maintain performance on key safety
metrics, such as Days Away, Restricted or Transferred
WM shows up for its communities by investing
rate (DART) of 2.4
in our employees, safety, education, conservation,
workforce development and more. Contributed nearly $2 million towards nonprofit
organizations supporting our Innovative Employment
In the communities where we live and work, we are bringing our
Pathways (IEP)® program
sustainability vision to life. Within our operations, we are committed
to continuously improving safety and strive to create a diverse and
Spent $691 million with diverse suppliers
inclusive workplace that supports employees’ career aspirations.
To build a future-ready workforce in a competitive marketplace, we
Increased applicant pool to help fill critical roles to
work to recruit from untapped talent pools, help to reduce barriers
serve our customers
for prospective candidates and emphasize the importance of training
and education opportunities for employees at every level of our
Conducted over 10,000 safety protocol
organization. We also emphasize the importance and practice of safe
assessments in our operations as part of our
actions through our safety vision—Get Home Safe Every Day. Within
proactive safety program
our neighborhoods, we support programs that help provide access
to green space, education and community resources.
Helped protect nearly 13,500 acres through
certified conservation programs
2023 HIGHLIGHTS
LOOKING AHEAD
26.4% 3.08
Further embedding inclusion and belonging
minority representation in Total Recordable Incident Rate
throughout WM’s ways of working, championed by
supervisor and above roles (TRIR)
our Diversity & Inclusion Council
$18.7 million 829,460 Expanding current safety pilot studies to assess all
incidents for Serious Injury and Fatality (SIF) potential
in charitable contributions people positively impacted
through targeted social impact Focusing on conservation and biodiversity programs
programs since 2022
in our communities
MATERIAL ENERGY COMMUNITIES
INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE 2024 Sustainability Report 18
IS REPURPOSED IS RENEWABLE ARE THRIVING
Keeping People
ENHANCING SAFETY FOR EMPLOYEES
& Communities Safe As part of our People First approach to safety, we proactively
seek opportunities to create a safer working environment. In 2022
and 2023, we began implementing a preventative safety program
Our team members’ safety comes first at WM, illustrated by our safety
that included more than 10,000 in-field observations conducted
rates that consistently beat the industry average. Our renewed safety
across our lines of business to promote safe operations and reduce
vision — Get Home Safe Every Day — engages employees in safe actions
any potential for serious injuries.
and behaviors. In 2023, we focused on standardizing incident reporting,
preventing serious injuries and fatalities and promoting the principles of This program has enabled our frontline leaders to do targeted safety
our safety vision and promise. We also introduced a new Environmental protocol assessments to determine where we potentially have risks
Health and Safety system to capture consolidated safety metrics. for our employees and where there may still be exposure. Data from
this study enabled us to look at our safety practices and implement
As we continue to grow our business, a critical component includes
recommendations for further improvement for the employee, facility,
launching safety protocols throughout our operating divisions. In 2023,
site safety team and overarching protocols.
We track safety through several key performance metrics. In 2023,
we established site-level safety committees to keep safety top of mind.
our Days Away, Restricted or Transferred rate (DART) declined for
With the expansion of our renewable energy business, it was paramount
WM employees. Due in part to several acquisitions in 2023, we saw
to implement and train teams on safety protocols at these facilities.
year-over-year shifts in WM’s safety metrics including an increase
STOPPING FIRES BEFORE THEY SPREAD
To help keep employees safe, we also invest in sophisticated in Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) and a decrease in Vehicle
technologies, including automated collection equipment on trucks, Accident Recordable Rate (VARR). As new team members are trained Lithium-ion batteries can be found in everything from laptops and
which helps prevent injuries from manual collection methods. On the in WM’s standardized safety practices, we believe we will see reduced cell phones to musical greeting cards and electric toothbrushes.
road, collection trucks are equipped with automated driver assistance incidents and improvements on key safety metrics. When damaged or crushed, these batteries can catch fire, creating
systems, which engage technologies such as audible alarms, active a hazard in recycling facilities, transfer stations and landfills. To
braking interventions and stability control to prevent vehicular combat risks posed by batteries that may end up in our facilities,
accidents. In our facilities, we explore and invest in upgrades like Our Safety Record we have invested in automated fire suppression technology that
optical sorting, screening and fire detection, further reducing manual quickly detects hotspots and remotely contains and extinguishes
movements and integrating automation technology where feasible. 2021 2022 2023 the fire. This technology has been installed in nearly half our
recycling facilities and at nearly 40 landfills and transfer stations
DART - Employees 2.4 2.6 2.4 as of 2023. In 2024, we aim to continue expanding the number of
facilities in which this technology is installed.
DART - Contractors
GOAL 2021 Baseline 2023 Progress 0.09 0.04 0.04
and Contingent Labor
Reduce Total Recordable 3.00 3.08 VARR 19,631 19,851 18,672
TRIR Three WM team members received the 2024 National Waste
Incident Rate (TRIR) annually,
& Recycling Association (NWRA) Operator of the Year award.
targeting 2.0 by 2030; and increase HARR 11,611 10,791 8,899
continued focus on prevention due in part The award recognizes employees working in post-collection
of serious injuries. to acquisitions who put safety first.
TRIR 3.00 3.02 3.08
MATERIAL ENERGY COMMUNITIES
INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE 2024 Sustainability Report 19
IS REPURPOSED IS RENEWABLE ARE THRIVING
Creating a Culture Diversity & Inclusion
We strive to foster an inclusive and welcoming work environment
of Belonging where all our team members can thrive. We regularly assess employee
job satisfaction and sense of belonging to make improvements based
on feedback and analysis.
At WM, being an employer of choice positions us to attract and retain
In 2023, with the full support of our Senior Leadership Team, and under
the best talent — now and into the future. Our People First strategy is
the leadership of our Chief HR and Diversity & Inclusion Officer, we
designed to meet the evolving needs of the world and our workforce.
began work to re-launch our Diversity & Inclusion Council. The Council,
In a competitive talent marketplace, we are cultivating a welcoming
sponsored by our Chief Financial Officer and our Chief Operating Officer,
and supportive environment by seeking to understand and meet
is comprised of leaders from across the company who bring diverse
employees’ diverse needs. Our enterprise-wide, coordinated approach
perspectives, experiences and skill sets to serve the enterprise.
supports growing a career through internal and external learning and
development programs. With a continuous focus on fostering a culture of belonging at
WM, we took significant steps toward creating a more inclusive
Being an Employer of Choice
workplace, including:
In 2023, we intentionally focused on expanding our applicant pool 6% veteran representation • Growing membership in our Employee Resource Groups by over 35%
by initiating competency-based hiring to focus on identifying core • Increasing outreach to diverse community members by nearly five
in our workforce in 2023
competencies required for success. This approach allows WM to screen times, resulting in a nearly 20% increase in diverse job applicants
candidates for knowledge, skills and abilities, rather than relying solely
• Hosting 17 Culture Connector Events, providing employees with an
on tenure, prior industry-specific experience or educational milestones.
CIVIL RIGHTS ASSESSMENT opportunity to increase cultural literacy and develop professionally
WM expanded its applicant pool to reach individuals outside the waste • Spending $691 million with diverse suppliers, more than 9% of supply
In 2023, we engaged a third party to conduct a Civil Rights
industry. To attract veterans, we attended over 80 military-focused chain addressable spend
Assessment which recognized WM’s enterprise-wide commitment
hiring events in 2023 and continue to work with organizations focused
to Diversity & Inclusion, with extensive programming, training, Expanding our applicant pool and increasing training and development
on connecting military job seekers with potential employers like WM.
recruitment initiatives and support to foster the success of all opportunities for all frontline employees helped to increase minority
employees and WM’s consciousness of the impact its operations representation at the supervisor and above level to 26.4% in 2023.
2023 may have on surrounding communities, particularly communities These efforts, and our increased focus on leadership development,
with Environmental Justice (EJ) indicators. The assessment resulted in 35% of open positions being filled by internal candidates,
Represent the communities we serve,
also identified growth opportunities, including expanding our which is a 9% increase year over year. With the implementation of
including opportunities for:
applicant pool to include more women, building an internal programs like Women in the Driver’s Seat, focused on attracting more
Female representation in 18.8% leadership talent pipeline and attracting more diverse leaders. women to apply to frontline roles, and our entry-level leadership
frontline to leadership roles
To address these areas, we are connecting with a wider array programs focused on supporting new frontline managers, we expect
of potential candidates, engaging employees in learning and to continue to create a workforce that is more diverse and welcoming
Minority representation in 26.4% development opportunities and soliciting and responding to to employees of all races, genders and ethnicities.
supervisor and above roles26 employee feedback.
26 Minority representation references both racial and ethnic characteristics self-identified by team members for
U.S. workforce only.
MATERIAL ENERGY COMMUNITIES
INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE 2024 Sustainability Report 20
IS REPURPOSED IS RENEWABLE ARE THRIVING
Listening to the Voice of the Employee
EXPANDING ACCESS TO CAREER OPPORTUNITIES
As part of our SPEAK UP program and culture, we encourage
employees to share open and honest feedback about their employee We enable workforce development by leveraging two competitive
experience at WM. One way we prioritize collecting feedback is advantages—our scale and our skills training. For example,
through our annual Voice of the Employee (VOE) survey where a keystone program, Innovative Employment Pathways (IEP)®,
employees provide valuable insight into strengths and opportunities works with nonprofits to break down barriers and help bring
that help drive outcomes across the enterprise. disenfranchised individuals into entry-level jobs.
In 2023, we saw an increase in the survey response rate, particularly In 2023, we nearly doubled our program spend, expanded the
among our frontline employee population. Along with increased program from four to five WM market areas, and contributed
participation in the VOE survey, we also saw a promising increase nearly $2 million to nonprofits to support job readiness training,
in the employee engagement index score. While these increases housing and transportation support and more.
represent meaningful progress on our path to ensuring WM is
For example, a collaboration with a local nonprofit in Fort Worth,
well-positioned as an Employer of Choice, we also want to ensure
Texas, helps us identify individuals who experience barriers to
that we utilize the VOE survey process to identify opportunities for
employment. Through one of our pilot programs, we provide
improvement. One of the key opportunities identified was to ensure
job training and guidance so participants can be hired as helpers
employees feel satisfied with the recognition they receive for their
and grow into one of our most critical roles: commercially
contributions. That’s why, in 2024, we launched a new recognition
licensed drivers. In 2023, we successfully hired, trained and
program, “Green & Grateful,” aimed at providing our teams with
transitioned two IEP® participants from contingent helpers to
easy and meaningful ways to say, “thank you.”
full-time WM drivers. Through programs like this, we provide
jobs with upward career potential.
AWARDS
Forbes - 2024 Best Employers for Diversity
PUTTING WOMEN IN THE DRIVER’S SEAT
Women in Trucking - 2023 Top Companies for
In 2023, we expanded our Women in the Driver’s Seat pilot
Women to Work in Transportation
program, designed to attract more women to apply for driving
roles, and saw a more than 50% increase in female applicants,
Ethisphere - 2024 World’s Most Ethical Companies compared to 2022. We achieved this by providing additional
resources, expanding our recruiting efforts and supporting all
new hires. This included creating clear roles and responsibilities
CandE - 2023 Candidate Experience Award Winner
for the hiring, onboarding and training team, conducting Diversity
& Inclusion trainings and introducing a round table with new hires
to collect their feedback.
MATERIAL ENERGY COMMUNITIES
INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE 2024 Sustainability Report 21
IS REPURPOSED IS RENEWABLE ARE THRIVING
Learning & Development
$10.4 million
ATTRACTING DIVERSE CANDIDATES
To support career mobility and address the tight labor market, we
of tuition coverage for WM employees and dependents through our
have adopted a “grow our own” strategy to continuously upskill our In 2023, we launched our Route Manager Training Program
Your Tomorrow program in 2023
employees to create a strong talent pipeline. We make training and to prepare frontline supervisors to support and develop our
upskilling available through robust, focused development programs, frontline employees whose role is critical in providing services
including several entry-level professional development programs created to our communities. Using our competency-based approach, we
to build competency in critical leadership and professional roles. broadened our reach and were able to draw from an increasingly
FRONTLINE HUMAN-CENTERED
diverse selection of talent. In 2023, we had 115 program
In 2023 we invested $795 per employee, offered nearly LEADERSHIP PROGRAM
participants of whom nearly 60% identify as female or a minority.
75 comprehensive training programs and provided employees
In 2023, we updated our Frontline Human-Centered Leadership
with access to thousands of courses designed to support career
Program to help supervisors and managers strengthen foundational
growth at WM. For example, participants in our Leading Today,
leadership skills. The six-month program emphasizes the value in
For Tomorrow® frontline leadership program develop communication,
creating an inclusive work environment and building trust through
coaching and inclusion skills to set them up to successfully excel as
communication and coaching skills. In 2023, more than 1,000
team leaders. Since launching in 2021, over 2,000 participants have
individuals graduated from the program.
graduated from the leadership training program. Read more about
our other leadership and development programs on our website.
We also look for opportunities to support education, not only for
Participating in this leadership program has been a
our employees, but also for their families. Our Your Tomorrow
transformative experience, pushing me to evolve and
education program offers tuition coverage for select programs
become a better leader. I’m not just managing a team,
for both WM employees and their dependents.
I’m inspiring positive change.
Your Tomorrow offers eligible participants access to more than — 2023 Leadership Development Graduate
170 fully-funded programs, including undergraduate and graduate
degrees, short-form technology, business certificate programs
and high school completion. It includes education and training
programs that directly tie to the business’s needs and map to Employee Turnover Rate
internal career pathways, focusing primarily on business, technology,
science and mathematics. These areas include data analytics, digital 2021 2022 2023
transformation and systems thinking to help team members upskill
Voluntary 20.9% 20.0% 15.0%
and reskill. Learn more on our website.
Total 25.4% 25.3% 21.0%
MATERIAL ENERGY COMMUNITIES
INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE 2024 Sustainability Report 22
IS REPURPOSED IS RENEWABLE ARE THRIVING
Supporting
OUR APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL JUSTICE
Our Communities
WM has long empowered our teams to serve as good
neighbors in our endeavor to make our communities more
sustainable and resilient. This commitment is demonstrated
As a key service provider for communities, we stretch beyond critical
through our leadership in EJ disclosures and our meaningful
material management and sustainability services to also prioritize engagement with communities.
meaningful engagement. When it comes to community engagement,
Inspired by our 13-year foundational work, WM's cross-functional
our focus is on protecting and providing access to green space,
EJ working group oversees the enterprise-wide strategy and
supporting sustainability education opportunities and filling gaps roadmap to guide our broader EJ program. In 2023, this
in communities. In 2023, WM proudly supported over 800 nonprofit included an internal Environmental Justice Summit where
organizations and community programs, enabling conservation stakeholders from across WM collaborated and discussed
challenges, lessons learned and opportunities to support
initiatives, scholarship opportunities, donation drives and other
PROVIDING ACCESS TO EDUCATION meaningful engagement. These conversations further cemented
community betterment activities.
our commitment to assessing and addressing community
Between funding and nonprofit-led, school-based programs,
To better understand the depth and breadth of the collective efforts needs, work anchored in the Environmental Protection Agency
we strive to extend access to education across our communities.
(EPA’s) definition of EJ which focuses on the just treatment and
of WM teams across North America, we created our For Tomorrow® In 2023, we granted over $8 million in scholarships, including
meaningful involvement of all people, regardless of income, race,
Champions Network in 2023. This group brings community engagement through Bridge Educational Foundation, one of the largest
color, national origin, Tribal affiliation or disability.
leaders across the company together to share best practices, problem scholarship-based nonprofits.
solve together and amplify impactful initiatives.
WM’s decades-long support has provided thousands of
low-income families with scholarships, allowing them to
829,460
choose the best educational opportunities for their needs. FILLING GAPS IN COMMUNITIES
WM was one of the first nationally-recognized companies
total people positively impacted since 2022 Being a good neighbor includes helping communities address
to participate in Pennsylvania’s scholarship programs and unmet needs by supporting local organizations through
thousands of companies have followed their lead. volunteerism, serving neighbors through outreach programs
GOAL 2022 2023 and leveraging our scale to organize giving campaigns.
— Natalie Nutt, Executive Director of the Bridge Educational Foundation
For example, through nearly 100 holiday giving programs,
Positively impact 302,998 526,462 over 4,300 volunteers supported communities by donating
We also support education through local organizations, such as
10 million people food, clothes, toys and other items to help serve over 250,000
Chicago-based Urban Rivers, a nonprofit dedicated to transforming
in our communities people positively impacted meals and provide access to 3,500 essential items in 2023.
city rivers into wildlife sanctuaries. The program provides students
through targeted
with hands-on science opportunities to conduct research and learn Another example of how $18.7 million in contributions goes
social impact
about aquatic ecosystems and local wildlife. In 2023, WM also funded toward social good is our 12-year, $600,000 commitment to
programs by $15.9 $18.7 million
grants for Vanderbilt University Medical Center to research ways to Slate Belt Rising — an initiative to revitalize Pennsylvania boroughs
2030, using the million
in charitable contributions, improve healthcare sustainability. These programs, and many others by promoting economic opportunity, reducing poverty and
equivalent of 2%
of our net income27 representing 0.8% of across North America, exemplify ways education-driven initiatives improving overall quality of life. In 2023, our support helped
help build future leaders. with litter cleanup, building façade beautification and more.
net income
27 Total annual charitable contributions are compared to the same year’s annual net income.
MATERIAL ENERGY COMMUNITIES
INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE 2024 Sustainability Report 23
IS REPURPOSED IS RENEWABLE ARE THRIVING
Protecting & Providing Access to Green Space
TODAY TOMORROW
Our facilities are more than meets the eye and their green spaces are often
creatively utilized as habitats for wildlife, sustainable solutions for carbon
storage or as outdoor learning labs for nearby community members.
For more than 30 years, we have worked alongside Wildlife Habitat Council
(WHC), a nonprofit focused on empowering companies to advance
biodiversity, sustainability, employee engagement and community relations
Air Quality
goals. Together we have established more than 300 projects across more Improvement
than 70 sites, protecting nearly 13,500 acres of habitat. We continue to
scale up our efforts with WHC and, in 2023, we shifted our focus toward Temperature
capacity building, providing our teams with tools to enhance green Noise Regulation
Reduction
spaces. For example, we developed a microforest toolkit which includes
guidelines to help sites successfully leverage a nature-based solution at
Wildlife Habitat Health and
their property. We also co-developed an employee engagement toolkit Community Well-being
Engagement
to help WM employees and interested community members get involved
in local projects. Leveraging nature-based solutions helps us lay the
groundwork for future generations to lead the sustainability movement,
Stormwater
and our work with WHC is a key piece of that endeavor.
Control Capacity
Biodiversity
Balance
Employee Engagement in Our Communities
An instrumental way conservation projects can positively
impact communities is through the support WM employees PLANTING SEEDS, FOR TOMORROW®
contribute to each initiative. In 2022, our employees
dedicated more than 2,300 hours across 28 habitat and In 2023, we expanded our biodiversity efforts beyond certified justice indicators. As these plantings mature, they will have the
conservation projects that were up for recertification. habitat sites and worked with WHC to demonstrate the possibilities potential to help with stormwater management by absorbing
That is a fraction of the time invested in over 70 certified for facilities who want to use a little land to make a big difference. rainwater and reducing erosion. That’s just one of many benefits
projects across North America. As a direct reflection of We did so through proof-of-concept microforests, which are dense, these nature-based solutions can bring to communities like our
our teams’ efforts and dedication, we were bestowed the fast-growing and biodiverse plantings on a small footprint, that can Indianapolis’ White River facility and New York City’s Bronx borough.
honor of the 2023 WHC Employee Engagement Award, be as small as the size of a tennis court. These plantings can act as The latter pilot occupies 3,000 square feet at our Harlem River Yard
an external recognition of employee engagement and carbon sinks, absorbing and storing carbon dioxide from the air. Transfer Station and the planting welcomed volunteers from the
dedication to conservation. To help us better understand the environmental and social benefits nearby DREAM Charter High School, helping to engage local youth
of a microforest, we planted in two communities with environmental in green programs.
MATERIAL ENERGY COMMUNITIES
INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE 2024 Sustainability Report 24
IS REPURPOSED IS RENEWABLE ARE THRIVING
A STRONG Behaving Ethically Protecting Data Privacy
& Security
GOVERNING As a People First company, we believe in the fair and ethical treatment
of our employees and supply chain. Our Code of Conduct (Code)
and Supplier Code of Conduct (Supplier Code) are aligned with
FRAMEWORK Safeguarding the data and digital assets of our company, our employees,
internationally recognized human rights standards that prohibit the
our customers, our stakeholders and other third parties is a top priority
use of forced or child labor. In early 2024, we clarified our Code with
for WM. We comply with applicable laws and regulations relating to data
additional guidance and highlighted our revised safety vision, Get Home
privacy and security in the territories in which we operate.
At WM, we are driven by our commitments and guided by our values, and Safe Every Day. The Code provides employees with resources on how
in the simplest terms we strive to "Do The Right Thing. The Right Way." to "Do the Right Thing. The Right Way." and outlines our expectations
We believe operating with integrity is foundational in building a resilient for employee conduct including guidelines on anti-corruption, anti-
ǚ Learn more about our privacy
business. Responsibility for ensuring we make decisions rooted in bribery, anti-harassment and more. All new hires complete training
policy at www.wm.com.
sustainability and ethics starts with our Board of Directors and Senior on the Code during onboarding and all employees complete refresher
Leadership Team who oversee and steer our organization. training on an annual basis.
Similarly, our suppliers are expected to commit to our Supplier Code
Our Board of Directors
which outlines our expectations for supplier conduct, including human
rights and environmental protection provisions. The Supplier Code INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY INTO
is aligned with The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact, further
In 2023, the Board had nine members, eight of whom were COMPENSATION PLANS
exemplifying WM’s commitment that both we and our suppliers operate
independent. The Board was composed of 33% female directors
with integrity. All suppliers are required to agree to the Supplier Code The Management Development & Compensation Committee
and 33% minority directors. Read more about our Board of Directors
during onboarding, as well as to any updates made to the Supplier of our Board incorporated a sustainability modifier into the
in our 2024 Proxy Statement.
Code while they remain a WM supplier. 2023 executive annual cash incentive program to reinforce
The Board oversees sustainability performance and risk for the our commitment to our sustainability goals and ambitions
Every employee should feel comfortable speaking up, sharing ideas,
company, including climate risk, compliance, cybersecurity and more. and to support long-term business objectives. As a result,
seeking guidance, asking questions and raising issues or concerns
The Board fulfills its responsibilities through its three committees— annual cash incentive payouts calculated based on financial
without the fear of retaliation. Our SPEAK UP culture encourages
the Audit Committee, the Management Development and Compensation performance measures were eligible to be increased or
employees to report any issues or concerns to their supervisor,
Committee and the Nominating and Governance Committee. decreased up to 5%, depending on achievement, calculated
Human Resources, Compliance and Ethics or any member of
using a sustainability scorecard. The 2023 scorecard contained
Sustainability-related performance and risks are distributed among our
management. Employees and suppliers are also able to report
quantifiable performance criteria in the areas of safety, climate
functional leaders and senior leadership. The Senior Leadership Team
concerns anonymously via a third-party Integrity Helpline available
and circularity. The Company earned sufficient points on the
holds an annual strategic planning session with the Board and provides
24 hours a day, seven days a week.
scorecard to receive a 2% increase to 2023 executive annual
the Board with regular updates on safety, workforce development, labor
cash incentive payouts otherwise earned. The 2024 annual
market evolution, supplier diversity and progress against sustainability
cash incentive program will continue to include a sustainability
goals, among others. In 2023, the Management Development &
Compensation Committee of the Board began integrating quantifiable ǚ Learn more about our Commitments and Values. modifier, increased from 5%, to a plus or minus 10%, based on
quantifiable performance criteria in the areas of safety, employee
sustainability criteria into the executive compensation incentive structure.
engagement, circularity and climate.
MATERIAL ENERGY COMMUNITIES
INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE 2024 Sustainability Report 25
IS REPURPOSED IS RENEWABLE ARE THRIVING
Forward-Looking initiatives, investments, acquisitions or new lines of business; failure proceedings; and decisions or developments that result in impairment
to identify acquisition targets, consummate and integrate acquisitions, charges. Please also see Waste Management, Inc.’s filings with the SEC,
including our planned acquisition of Stericycle, Inc.; environmental including Part I, Item 1A of its most recently filed Annual Report on Form
Statements
and other regulations, including developments related to emerging 10-K, and any subsequently filed Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, for
contaminants, gas emissions, renewable energy, extended producer additional information regarding these and other risks and uncertainties
The Company, from time to time, provides estimates of financial and responsibility and our natural gas fleet; significant environmental, applicable to its business. The forward-looking statements in this report
other data, comments on expectations relating to future periods and safety or other incidents resulting in liabilities or brand damage; speak only as of the date of the preparation of this report, and the
makes statements of opinion, view or belief about current and future failure to obtain and maintain necessary permits due to land scarcity, Company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement,
events, which may be identified by the use of words such as “target,” public opposition or otherwise; diminishing landfill capacity, resulting including financial estimates and forecasts, whether as a result of future
“plan,” “expect,” “forecast,” “future,” “commit,” “intend,” “potential,” in increased costs and the need for disposal alternatives; failure to events, circumstances or developments or otherwise.
“estimate,” and similar expressions that contemplate future events. attract, hire and retain key team members and a high quality workforce;
Many of the assumptions, standards, methodologies, metrics and
Except for historical information contained herein, the statements in this increases in labor costs due to union organizing activities or changes
measurements used in preparing this report continue to evolve and are
report are forward-looking statements that are made pursuant to the in wage and labor related regulations; disruption and costs resulting
based on management assumptions believed to be reasonable at the
Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act from severe weather and destructive climate events; failure to achieve
time of preparation, but should not be considered guarantees. There are
of 1995. Examples of forward-looking statements in this report include, our sustainability goals or execute on our sustainability-related strategy
inherent uncertainties in providing such information, due to the complexity
but are not limited to: sustainability and business goals, including those and initiatives, including within planned timelines or anticipated budgets
and novelty of many methodologies established for collecting, measuring,
relating to measuring and reducing our greenhouse gas emissions, due to disruptions, delays, cost increases or changes in environmental
and analyzing environmental and sustainability-related data.
recycling, renewable energy, energy efficiency, Diversity & Inclusion, or tax regulations; focus on, and regulation of, environmental and
safety, community engagement and giving and environmental justice; sustainability-related disclosures, which could lead to increased costs, In some cases, the information in this report is prepared, or based on
plans and strategies to achieve such goals; future execution of and risk of non-compliance, brand damage and litigation risk related to information prepared, by government agencies or third-party vendors
planned, projected or estimated investments and capital expenditures in our sustainability efforts; macroeconomic conditions, geopolitical and consultants and is not independently verified by the Company.
strategic priorities, including sustainability projects; timing, outcomes, conflict and large-scale market disruption resulting in labor, supply Third-party information should not be interpreted as any form of guarantee
including production increases and capacity expansions, and benefits chain and transportation constraints, inflationary cost pressures or assurance of accuracy, future results or trends, and the Company makes
from investment in strategic priorities and sustainability projects; and fluctuations in commodity prices, fuel and other energy costs; no representation or warranty as to third-party information.
business and growth plans; and any other future events, performance increased competition; pricing actions; impacts from international
Unless otherwise provided, the information contained in this report is
or results. You should view these statements with caution and not trade restrictions; competitive disposal alternatives, diversion of waste
expressly not incorporated by reference into any filing of the Company
place any undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. They from landfills and declining waste volumes; weakness in general
made with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission or any other
are based on the facts and circumstances known to the Company as economic conditions and capital markets, including potential for an
filing, report, application, or statement made by the Company to any
of the date the statements are made. Forward-looking statements are economic recession; instability of financial institutions; adoption of
federal, state, tribal, or local governmental authority. We may have used
subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to new tax legislation; fuel shortages; failure to develop and protect new
definitions of materiality in the course of creating this report that do not
be materially different from those set forth in such forward-looking technology; failure of technology to perform as expected; failure to
coincide with or rise to the level of the definition of materiality for the
statements, including but not limited to failure to implement our prevent, detect and address cybersecurity incidents or comply with
purposes of U.S. federal securities laws.
optimization, automation, growth, and cost savings initiatives and overall privacy regulations; inability to adapt and manage the benefits and risks
business strategy; failure to obtain the results anticipated from strategic of artificial intelligence; negative outcomes of litigation or governmental
For more information visit:
sustainability.wm.com or the Sustainability Data Center
