1
SUS TAI N AB I L I T Y
R EPOR T 2020
03 CEO letter 19 Operating with integrity
04 About Waters
20 Corporate governance
05 Materiality
22 Benefiting society
06 Our commitment
23 Community engagement
07 Goals for 2025
08 Goal 1: Innovation
25 GRI index
11 Goal 2: Environmental
26 General disclosures
13 Goal 3: Supply chain
30 Economic
15 Goal 4: Employees
31 Environmental
18 Goal 5: Culture, health,
33 Social
safety and well-being
36 Awards
Table of c ontent s
3 Waters Sustainability Report 2020 | CEO letter
Throughout the pandemic, Waters has turned this
scientific understanding towards three objectives:
A Message from
1. Ensure the safety and well-being of our
employees and their families
Dr. Udit Batra
2. Do our part to help mitigate the public health
crisis with our skills and our products
3. Maintain business continuity
I am incredibly proud of our 7,300 colleagues
globally who have contributed tremendously
to these objectives. Through numerous safety
measures put in place including early pilot
programs for testing and tracing and reviewing
Thank you for your interest in Waters’ efforts to
air flow and filtration across our facilities, I’m Establishing sustainability goals You can be sure that as we work towards these “Guided by
ensure a sustainable future for us all.
thankful that at the time of writing this, we aren’t goals, Waters will continue living out the values
Delivering Benefit
Setting goals is central to achieving measurable
The COVID-19 pandemic has become an aware of any onsite transmissions of the virus. within our culture that compel us not just to
progress and I was happy to learn that Waters in all that we do,
inescapable reality in 2020. Guided by the singular improve ourselves, but also to leave the things and
We activated an Innovation Response Team at has developed five sustainability goals based on
focus of Delivering Benefit in all that we do, our places in the communities in which we work and our team has
the onset of the pandemic, working directly a materiality assessment conducted in 2018:
team has demonstrated through its collective live, better than we found them.
demonstrated all
with customers and researchers to contribute
actions all the good we are capable of, even during
1. Cultivating and Advancing Our Innovation
our technology and expertise to accelerate the As Waters’ chief executive, I look forward to the good we
the most challenging times in our history.
Ecosystem
innovation and collaboration needed to help continuing to champion these and other are capable of,
I joined Waters on September 1, 2020 in the middle put an end to this public health crisis. Lastly, we sustainability efforts, engaging with our customers,
2. Reducing Our Environmental Impact even during the
of the COVID-19 pandemic. As a former research have focused on effective business continuity our global workforce and our shareholders to make
most challenging
engineer, I have always admired our company’s planning that has ensured Waters remain open 3. Enhancing Our Sustainable Supply Chain our world safer and healthier, and promoting a
scientific prowess and its mission to make meaningful for business globally with uninterrupted delivery more prosperous future for all. times in
4. Leading by Example in our Employee
impacts on healthcare and in the world. of products and expertise to our customers.
our history.”
Development & Engagement Sincerely,
We are making our world safer 5. Nurturing A Culture of Health, Safety and
Well-being
This year’s report highlights progress made towards
and healthier, and promoting
these goals in 2019 and early 2020, including
increasing the use of recyclable packaging,
Dr. Udit Batra
reducing our carbon footprint, championing STEM
a more prosperous future for all.
education, enhancing our efforts in fostering an President and Chief Executive Officer,
inclusive workplace and much more. Waters Corporation
4 Waters Sustainability Report 2020 | About Waters
About Waters
Waters Corporation is the world’s leading specialty measurement
For more information
company, a technology innovator in chromatography, mass
spectrometry, thermal analysis instruments, and software that has on our locations, strategy
served the life, materials, and food sciences industries for more and economic impact,
than 60 years. visit waters.com and read
our 2019 Annual Report
35 7,000+
countries worldwide employees Our mission is Our focus is
to Deliver Benefit™ customer success
Waters unlocks the potential of science with Waters is continually advancing our new product
Headquartered in ~$2.4B
analytical measurement technology, deep and services pipeline to deliver the insights
Milford, Massachusetts
expertise, and reliable insights that enhance needed today in order to solve the challenges
human health and well-being. Our founder, of tomorrow. Waters creates business advantages
in revenue in 2019 Jim Waters, coined the phrase Deliver Benefit for laboratory organizations through practical
to express the idea that we should positively and sustainable scientific innovation. Waters
impact our customers, employees, shareholders, systems and applications provide the performance,
and society at every opportunity. The phrase is confidence, and accuracy that today’s labs depend
our bedrock and the guiding force behind our on to power their business-critical functions.
decisions and actions. From the development of In 2020, Waters was honored with the Confirmit
life-saving pharmaceuticals to ensuring the safety ACE (Achievement in Customer Excellence
Waters Corporation is the of the world’s food and water supplies or the Award) for outstanding achievement in customer
integrity of a chemical entity in production, we experience. With reliable insights and deep
are constantly working to help our customers experience in laboratory infrastructure and
change the world. measurement, we help our customers make
world’s leading specialty
profound discoveries, optimize lab operations,
deliver product performance, and ensure
regulatory compliance. Our connected portfolio
measurement company. of separation and analytical science, laboratory
informatics, and mass spectrometry delivers a
powerful platform for customer success.
5 Waters Sustainability Report 2020 | Materiality assessment
M aterialit y assessment
Waters Material Topics
Strategic opportunity Organizational priority Operational imperative
Our mission to Deliver Benefit to our customers, employees,
Innovation and thought leadership Financial performance Human health, safety, and well-being
shareholders, and society at every opportunity is the guiding force
behind our decisions and actions. With that in mind, we undertook
Environmental impact of products Digital transformation Diversity and fair treatment
a comprehensive materiality assessment in 2018 to identify the
environmental, social, and governance topics that are most important
Talent recruitment and development Sustainable supply chain Energy and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions
to our organization and our stakeholders. The results informed our
sustainability strategy and helped define our sustainability goals.
Culture and engagement Business continuity planning Water and waste management
Our multi-step process included internal research frameworks, and supplier surveys. We also To ensure that our strategy
to identify key material topics, stakeholder interviewed a broad spectrum of senior leaders and
was aligned with industry
engagement and feedback, and development of a other stakeholders, including customers, investors,
best practices as well as an
methodology to prioritize issues and opportunities. and philanthropic partners, and distributed a
To ensure that our strategy was aligned with company-wide survey. independent point of view,
industry best practices as well as an independent
we engaged independent
Material topics were prioritized based on
point of view, we engaged independent consultants
consultants to assist with the
respective stakeholder and business importance,
to assist with the assessment and validate
validated with Waters executive committee assessment and validate
our findings.
members and grouped under three categories:
our findings.
Our research included a peer review of customers, Strategic Opportunity, Organizational Priority, and
key suppliers, and industry influencers as well Operational Imperative. We will continue to engage
as key financial and sustainability reports, risk with stakeholders and industry peers to update
assessments, shareholder inquiries and resolutions, our materiality perspective and ensure the
investor and reputational indices, industry continued relevance and alignment of our focus
association reports, sustainability reporting areas and sustainability strategy.
Our commitment
to sustainability
7 Waters Sustainability Report 2020 | Goals for 2025
Goals for 2025
Our commitment to sustainability derives from
our focus on advancing scientific progress
to enhance human health and well-being.
Sustainability goals
We believe that sustainable activities inspire
innovation and contribute to operational
excellence, so we try to integrate sustainable
Our materiality assessment identified key areas where we can drive
thinking and practice into our strategy,
sustainability throughout the organization. We engaged with internal
operations and products.
business leaders to develop and commit to our first set of five-year
sustainability goals, which align with our mission to Deliver Benefit to
our customers, employees, shareholders, and society.
Cultivating and advancing Reducing our Enhancing our sustainable Leading by example in Nurturing a culture of
our innovation ecosystem environmental impact supply chain our employee development health, safety, and well-being
and engagement
We will systematically implement measurable, We will improve our operations performance We will advance a product and supply We will foster an attitude of awareness,
sustainable practices in how we innovate, by decreasing environmental impact and chain sustainability program that identifies preparedness, and responsiveness across our
We continue to focus on the employees we
develop, and deliver our products. increasing natural resource efficiency. opportunities to improve our products’ workplace and throughout our supply chain.
have today — and the employees we will need
impact across engineering, procurement,
tomorrow — through programs and initiatives
Develop an end-to-end product The company has dedicated resources to and operations. Work towards a Zero Harm Workplace by
that drive diversity, inclusion, and development.
sustainability program measure and manage our environmental implementing safety management systems at
footprint and has committed to reduce our Require supplier acknowledgement of revised all manufacturing sites and distribution centers
Participate in the Human Rights Campaign
Reduce the complexity and environmental emissions by 35% from a 2016 baseline Supplier Code of Conduct
Corporate Equality Index
Expand health and safety programs, supporting
impact of Waters’ product packaging
Expand environmental management Develop and implement a Supplier our Duty of Care to all employees and locations
Foster a culture of diversity and inclusion
systems to include manufacturing sites Sustainability Scorecard around the world
Foster innovation through global throughout our global workforce
1 2 3 4 5
and distribution centers
Immerse Innovation and Research Labs
Incorporate Supplier Sustainability Scorecard Attract and retain talent by enhancing Enhance enterprise resilience by anticipating
findings into supplier management practices development opportunities and delivering and mitigating business disruption risks facing
Work towards zero landfill use at our six largest
our operations and supply chain
competitive total rewards programs
manufacturing sites and a reduction in water use
intensity
8 Waters Sustainability Report 2020 | Goal 1
1
We have increased our
investment in R&D by 21%
Advancing our
over the last four years.
innovation ecosystem
Waters has been at the forefront of scientific innovation since Jim Waters
End-to-end
perfected the first infrared gas analyzer in 1958. That tradition of innovation
product sustainability
continues today, as the world demands new breakthroughs in research
and discovery, from pharmaceutical development to food safety, and we
Our sustainability goals for 2025 include developing
continue to drive progress by investing in research, promoting innovation, an end-to-end product sustainability program.
and fostering scientific collaboration. This program will utilize Life Cycle Assessment to
reduce the environmental impact of our products
and seek alternative materials and use cases to
Waters unlocks the potential of science by use 35% less energy and up to 80% less solvent reduce consumption of energy and consumables.
providing the tools, technology, and insights than earlier HPLC products, making them extremely
Waters’ first step toward reaching its product
that advance human health and well-being. environmentally friendly. Today, Waters’ growing
sustainability goals is to clarify our approach to
Our employees push the boundaries of science
sustainability as it relates to product development.
to deliver the future of specialty measurement
35%
This requires us to identify key stakeholders as
and analytical technologies, helping to uncover
well as the most relevant industry standards for
truths in an increasingly complex world. In 2019,
our products and processes. We are also reviewing
we introduced new products ranging from
our product-related sustainability efforts to date
breakthrough innovation to improvements that
and will propose modifications to our product
reduction in energy use through
enhance routine analysis.
development processes and lifecycle management
innovations like ACQUITY UPLC
Breakthrough Waters products like our best-in- plans where needed. Finally, we will create a
class BioAccord™ System for biopharmaceutical product sustainability roadmap to help us reach
analysis are aiding the effort to develop life-saving family of ACQUITY UPLC™ Systems our 2025 goal.
vaccines. And innovations like ultra-performance deliver improvements in analytical resolution
liquid chromatography, known as UPLC, not only and sensitivity that enable every laboratory
enable more advanced separation of samples, but to leverage the very best in LC performance.
9 Waters Sustainability Report 2020 | Goal 1
Packaging redesign
The goal of our sustainable packaging effort
is to identify opportunities to introduce more
recyclable and recycled materials into our
packaging designs. We began by looking at two
key areas of the business, column packaging
and instrument packaging.
In column packaging, we designed a new outer The use of recycled board in our preventative Our sustainable packaging efforts identify
box and clamshell from 100% recyclable materials, maintenance kits led to a 49% increase in recycled
eliminating foam brick inserts that were neither material use — a significant impact given an annual
opportunities to introduce more recyclable
manufactured with recycled material nor recyclable run rate of approximately 80,000 boxes. Other
after use. The new design reduces the size of the notable results include using recycled foam padding,
column box by 50% and will be implemented for which increased single-package recycled content and recycled materials.
legacy products in four phases, beginning with the by 36%.
BioResolve™ and ACQUITY™ PREMIER Columns
Eliminating the gluing of non-like items in
lines in the fourth quarter of 2020.
combined packaging for two top-volume products
Our effort to reduce waste in instrument packaging achieved a three-fold increase in the use of
looked at our top 20 instrument packages with two recycled materials in those packages. Consolidating 49% 11% 100%
quick-win imperatives: switching from virgin white two top-volume instrument boxes into a single
board to 100% recycled corrugated board where new design completely eliminated a high-volume
possible, and seeking opportunities to consolidate package from our supply chain for an 11% annual
packaging for instruments of similar size and weight reduction (equivalent to the weight of
increase in recycled materials annual weight reduction from a elimination of all foam from
shape, redesigning packaging with recycled and two SUVs).
for preventative maintenance high-volume package (equaling a legacy box (resulting
recyclable material.
A second big win was the redesign of a legacy
kits, of which Waters produces the weight of two SUVs) in annual weight reduction
box that eliminated all foam and in particular
approximately 80,000 units equal to a Smart Car)
polyurethane foam (which is neither recycled nor
per year
recyclable). The new all-corrugated design resulted
in an annual weight reduction of 56% (or about
the weight of a Smart Car).
10 Waters Sustainability Report 2020 | Goal 1
Immerse™ innovation and
research lab
Unlocking the potential of science demands The Immerse Cambridge compact carbon footprint
more than instruments of unparalleled technical is the result of sustainable low-impact and bio-
precision. Waters is also helping to make open, derived construction techniques and materials. For
connected science a reality through access to example, sourcing Interface carpet tiles diverted
shared technologies, early innovations and 2,777 pounds of carpet from landfills, and the lab’s
venues for collaboration and diversity of ideas. office furnishings include products from carbon-
neutral designers Boss Design and the Herman
Between now and 2025, Waters will launch a
Miller rePurpose product line, made from reutilized
network of global innovation and research labs.
materials. Immerse Cambridge incorporates the
Appropriately named Immerse, the facilities
latest AV tools for efficient engagement either
are designed to bring the best scientific minds,
remotely or for hosting a wide variety of business
educational institutions, and industry visionaries
and technical activities. The lab’s central location
together in a collaborative community. Powered by
is accessible to some of Waters’ most important
Waters’ technologies, we expect these facilities to
customers and collaborators by walking, biking and
become launch points for new ideas and shape
public transportation, and in day-to-day operations
the next generation of scientific advancements.
Immerse pursues environmentally preferred
See how Waters
purchasing and recycling. Working with TerraCycle,
7 7%
a global leader in managing typically hard-to- is helping to
COVID-19 virus innovation response team
recycle waste, Immerse Cambridge construction support vaccine
achieved an average recycling rate of more Waters’ Innovation Response Team galvanized the act expeditiously to achieve research here
than 77%. entire company around the single challenge of the paired goals of employee
average recycling rate directly applying technology and expertise in the safety and customer service.
development of vaccines, therapies and testing for Recognizing that the virus would
COVID-19. “Waters is enabling research analysis not impact every region in the same
Design and construction for Immerse Cambridge Innovation Summit
and breakthroughs at a time when the need is way or at the same time, the task force
began in 2019 in Kendall Square, a globally
Waters’ third Innovation Summit was held in
heightened,” said Erin Chambers, VP of Chemistry. identified six zone leaders, along with
recognized hotspot for biotechnology, science,
July 2019. The annual event, hosted at rotating
“Our mRNA-based therapeutic solutions are site leaders to represent Waters global sites.
and engineering in Cambridge, Massachusetts
global R&D locations, provides an opportunity for
providing incredible turnaround times — 42 days The implementation of safety measures well
and the lab celebrated its official opening in
employees to celebrate the culture of innovation
“Waters is enabling
from the sequencing of SARS COV-2 to trial in ahead of government mandates is a testament
September 2020.
at Waters, recognize individual accomplishments, human subjects.” to our focus on employee health and well-being, research analysis
inspire creativity, and share ideas and best practices.
The neighborhood has been a long-standing hub and we were able to deliver Waters products
and breakthroughs
Like other companies, Waters needed to respond
of biotech innovation, multi-national companies, to customers at all times without issues, despite
at a time when the
quickly to the crisis on behalf of the company’s
and academic excellence, and in attracting the a substantial decline in global freight capacity
worldwide employees. Waters’ Executive need is heightened.”
best and brightest new talent it adds an important relative to pre-pandemic levels.
Leadership team empowered a task force to
recruitment advantage for Waters.
11 Waters Sustainability Report 2020 | Goal 2
2
Reducing our
Energy Energy sources*
The manufacturing and testing of our products
environmental impact 2016 2017 2018 2019
require heavy equipment that is energy intensive.
We measure and monitor energy use at our Heating oil 1,967 1,550 0 20
facilities² to identify potential opportunities for Stationary
reduction. Over the past 4 years, we have seen a Combustion Natural gas 29,659 31,139 33,305 33,754
We believe the health of our planet is fundamental to our purpose of
(MwH)
steady decrease in the intensity of energy used
enhancing human health and well-being. With the global population
Diesel backup 18 42 34 40
per $1 million dollars in revenue. This is attributable
expected to grow by 25% by 2050 1, our natural resources will face
to an increase in the energy efficiency of the
Diesel 3,359 4,061 3,338 3,261
increasing pressure. It is crucial to focus on decoupling environmental
buildings and infrastructure of our primary facilities Vehicle Fuels
impact from business growth, build resilience across our supply and an increase in the overall efficiency of our (MwH)
Gasoline 21,000 20,051 21,583 19,499
chain, and explore efficiency opportunities in our products. manufacturing processes.
District heating 56 41 31 0
Electricity 55,699 55,497 56,828 58,518
Sustainability management Renewable energy
For more information, Total energy consumption 111,758 112,381 115,119 115,092
Our Senior Director, Workplace Solutions is Waters maintains To minimize the impact of our energy use, we
read our Environmental
responsible for overall management of our an ISO 14001 purchase renewable energy at our Wexford, Ireland
environmental strategies and policies. Local certified Health and Safety facility and low-carbon energy at several others.
Revenue (millions USD) 2,167 2,309 2,420 2,406
implementation of policies and procedures in Environmental Policy here In total, we estimate that renewable and/or low-
accordance with applicable rules and regulations Management carbon electricity accounted for approximately Energy/Revenue (MwH/$mm) 51.6 48.7 47.8 44.3
is the responsibility of the Health, Safety and System (EMS) at 27% of our total electricity usage in 2019. This
Environment (HSE) Coordinator at each Waters our headquarters amount goes beyond the renewable energy
facility. All employees are responsible for ensuring and largest global already part of local energy supplies. We also
Greenhouse gases (Metric Tons CO e x 1,000)*
that our business is conducted in compliance with manufacturing facility in studied our six sites that account for more than
2
applicable laws and in a manner that protects the Milford, Massachusetts. The 80% of our energy use and are now exploring
environment. Employees are required to notify EMS attests to our commitment to increased use of renewable energy. 2016 2017 2018 2019
management if hazardous materials come into being good stewards of the communities
Our goal to reduce our emissions by 35% from
contact with the environment or are improperly where we operate and actively protecting Scope 1 GHG Emissions* 12.8 13.2 14.3 13.4
a 2016 baseline was chosen in consideration
handled or discarded. the environment by pursuing pollution prevention,
of science-based targets (SBTs) intended to Scope 2 GHG Emissions# 14.4 13.3 12.4 12.9
waste reduction, and the conservation of natural
contribute to limiting global temperature rise,
resources throughout our operations. We will
Total 27.2 26.5 26.7 26.3
consistent with the Paris Agreement. Among the
continue to prioritize environmental management
primary drivers of this effort will be the use of
by expanding our EMS to all our manufacturing
# Scope 2 emissions are reported as market-based figures
renewable energy at our largest facilities, including
sites and distribution centers.
* Energy use and GHG emissions data were revised in March 2023 to reflect corrected reporting for our Taunton facility from
our headquarters. We continue to seek initiatives
1 United Nations World Population Prospects 2019 2016-20. Our total energy consumption for those years is approximately 13% higher than originally reported, and our total
to reduce our emissions and do our part to reduce
2Waters reported energy usage for its 26 primary sites (2019). These sites account for more than 80% of the company’s total square Scope 1+2 GHG emissions are approximately 10% higher than originally reported. We identified the historical reporting error
footage and include those sites with the heaviest impact due to manufacturing and research operations. the overall rise in global temperature. as part of our annual internal review process, in consultation with third-party consultants.
12 Waters Sustainability Report 2020 | Goal 2
Water Sustainable by design
We are committed to addressing water use Water and wastewater (in cubic meters) Our mass spectrometry headquarters in
throughout our operations and have focused our Wilmslow, UK, completed in 2014 was constructed
1,158 92,374 65,576
efforts on six main production sites where water to meet the BREEAM “Very Good” standard
2019
use is most prevalent. We will continue to seek and includes built-in sustainable components
286 79,194 63,919
water management efficiencies as we work towards such as rainwater harvesting tanks, solar
2018
our goal of reducing our water use intensity. panels, and heat recovery systems.
1,560 73,753 68,598
2017
In Taunton, Massachusetts, our precision
1,734 73,025 64,352
chemistry site is responsible for bulk synthesis
2016
of chromatographic media, which is critical
to sample analysis for pharmaceutical,
Rainwater Muni water Muni sewerage system
biopharmaceutical, materials, food, clinical,
and biomedical research applications.
Waste In 2018, Waters announced a $215 million
commitment over six years to build and equip
a state-of-the-art facility that will expand the
Upholding our commitment to environmental
chemistry operation to support rising global
responsibility includes monitoring how much
demand, as well as advancement in chemistry
waste we create and how we dispose of materials
technology innovation. Last year, we continued
used in our manufacturing processes. At our
construction that incorporates elements of
major sites, we are seeing a decrease in waste
Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design
being sent to landfills, and more waste being
(LEED®) to optimize efficiency and achieve base
diverted to recycling and incineration (typically
level certification.
waste-to-energy). We expect this trend to continue
as we drive future reductions in solid waste going LEED is a trademark of the U.S. Green Building Council.
Waters facility in Taunton, Massachusetts.
to landfill.
Waste generation by disposal method (metric tons)
54 392 221 In 2018, Waters invested approximately
2019 667
189 298 176
$215M to build and equip a state-of-the-art
2018 663
142 321 206
2017 669
facility that will expand our chemistry
106 368 113
2016 587
New 1,500gal neutralization tank.
operation to meet rising global demand.
Waste to landfill Waste to incineration Recycled waste
3
13 Waters Sustainability Report 2020 | Goal 3
Enhancing our sustainable
Product Quality View our Supplier
Quality Manual here
We require all suppliers to meet the criteria of
supply chain
ISO 9001 or other applicable standards to ensure
the quality of our products and required delivery
times needed for our manufacturing processes
We will advance a product and supply chain sustainability program that to function effectively.
identifies opportunities to reduce any negative social and environmental
ISO
impacts across engineering, procurement, and operations.
Supplier code of conduct Supplier assessment Social risk factors
9001
We regard our suppliers as an extension of Our supplier management program oversees the To assess the potential social risks of our suppliers,
our business. Our mission to Deliver Benefit is financial, governance, environmental and social we review data including labor and wage-related
directly aligned with social and environmental risk factors of suppliers who provide goods and issues, risks for corruption and child labor, political
responsibility, and we encourage those with services to Waters. We use a scorecard to assess Standard required of suppliers unrest, and any past issues that were made public
whom we do business to share our commitment suppliers according to specific environmental and or reported in media. We assess the relative
to responsible and ethical business practices. social risk. Additional weighting is assigned based criticality of sole source providers, and we also
on our spend with each supplier. We are working consider a supplier’s industry and geographic
Environmental risk factors
to incorporate suppliers’ sustainability performance location, recognizing that certain issues are more
“We require suppliers to adhere to
into our overall supplier assessment processes. prevalent in different parts of the world.
all applicable laws, rules, and
To assess the environmental risk factors of our
regulations of the countries in which This approach helps us identify the location and
suppliers, we rely on globally recognized metrics
severity of social risks. A total risk score is assigned
they operate, and to maintain the and a database that helps firms calculate the
to each key supplier based on the social risk score,
energy and environmental impact of products and
highest ethical standards.”
environmental risk score, and the total annual
services. This database provides information on
spend with the supplier. Scoring enables us to
product impacts throughout their lifecycles, from
focus extra scrutiny on key, high-risk suppliers, and
It is critical that our suppliers uphold the human raw materials through production, and includes the
actively engage with them to improve deficiencies.
rights of workers and treat them with dignity and impact of manufacturing techniques. This enables
This approach strengthens supplier relationships
respect while ensuring a safe and healthy analysis of the relative impacts of products across
and promotes positive change.
working environment. their lifetime.
We adhere to the requirements of the UK Modern
Slavery Act and require all suppliers to comply with
our Supplier Code of Conduct, which addresses
child labor and human trafficking.
14 Waters Sustainability Report 2020 | Goal 3
By anticipating the risks presented by
Brexit and U.S./China trade tensions and
Product stewardship Conflict minerals
responding promptly to the COVID-19
Waters’ products are compliant with the EU’s Waters’ Conflict Minerals Management Program
virus pandemic, Waters maintained a steady
Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) (CMMP), a responsibility of our product
Directive and other regional RoHS regulations stewardship team, ensures the responsible
that seek to reduce the environmental impact management of supply chain minerals that may
supply of products to our customers.
and increase recycling of electrical and electronic be sourced from conflict-affected and high-risk
equipment. To ensure that future products regions of the world. The CMMP complies with
comply with material composition and product the conflict minerals reporting requirements of
documentation requirements, we’ve incorporated the Dodd-Frank Act.
RoHS considerations into our product development
3,045 Product sustainability
This program is based upon certain industry
process. We also comply with the EU’s Waste
guidance, including the Due Diligence Guidance
Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE)
for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Reducing the environmental footprint of our
Directive, which enables consumers to return
Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas of the manufacturing and operations is a key focus of our
eligible equipment for recycling. In addition,
Organization of Economic Cooperation and sustainability effort, but it’s not our only approach
we verify our products’ compliance with other suppliers contacted for our
Development. Waters expects its suppliers to to reducing impact reduction. Our products also
applicable hazardous substance regulations, such
annual conflict minerals survey
exercise due diligence in their own supply chain use resources when our customers use them. We
as the EU’s Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation
and to make their due diligence findings available use Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) to further quantify
and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH).
to Waters. the environmental impact of a product throughout
Waters has full-time staff dedicated to CMMP, as
its lifespan, from materials selection and production
well as a steering committee with representatives
through use and eventually end-of-life disposal.
from Trade Compliance, Product Stewardship,
Our studies have found that the major impact of
Sustainability, Procurement, Legal, Finance,
our products occurs in the use phase, and look
and Investor relations. CMMP and its goals are
for opportunities to reduce impact there. LCA
included in our Supplier Code of Conduct/Quality
analysis led to breakthrough design improvements
Manual and we have held training sessions with
in our ACQUITY UPLC product. Compared to
key suppliers to discuss its importance. In FY2019,
its predecessor, ACQUITY UPLC has a smaller
Waters contacted 3,045 suppliers with our annual
footprint, delivers greater speed and capacity,
survey. Additionally, Waters maintains an external
Read our SEC filing on
consumes less energy, requires fewer solvents
email address as a mechanism for suppliers and
Conflict Minerals here
and offers greater longevity.
third parties to raise concerns.
15 Waters Sustainability Report 2020 | Goal 4
4
Leading by example in our
employee development
and engagement
We believe that our people create the Waters difference, and we’ve made
important investments for our more than 7,000 talented and committed
Respect and inclusion
employees. We will continue to focus on initiatives and programs that drive
are at the core of how
diversity, inclusion and retention.
Waters facility in Wilmslow, UK.
we Deliver Benefit
every day.
Support for human rights Diversity & inclusion Employee Circles fuel
diversity and inclusion
Waters has set a goal to participate in the Human Our 2019 initiatives: At Waters, respect and inclusion are at the core of
Rights Campaign Corporate Equality Index how we Deliver Benefit every day. Inclusion is a
Launched our Pride, Multicultural, and Empowering employees to pursue their full
(CEI). Our progress toward this goal includes an core tenet of our Employee Success Model and
Veterans Employee Circles potential without limitation leads to new ideas,
internal assessment against KPIs in 2019 and a the values we live by, and we believe that we
innovation, and ultimately better business
gap assessment completed in first quarter 2020. can only reach true equality when we allow people
Feedback sessions on how to
results. We celebrate difference and diversity in
In 2019 we launched three new Employee Circles: to contribute their talents without limitation.
cultivate a more inclusive culture
our Employee Circles, which focus on gender,
Multicultural, Veterans, and Pride, all with the goal We promote an equality mindset that seeks the
for Pride employees
Multicultural, Veterans, and Pride employees In addition to our Employee Circles, our Diversity
of making Waters more inclusive and supportive. best ideas regardless of where they come from.
and allies. Our Employee Circles and their & Inclusion (D&I) Council of Leaders sponsors
Sponsorship of the Human Rights
members serve as ambassadors and change events that foster a culture of inclusion. By way
In 2019 we launched our Pride Employee Circle
Campaign New England Event
Women in leadership roles
agents, promoting diversity and inclusion of example, Waters participated in International
with a goal of making Waters more inclusive and
throughout the company. All employees Women’s Day activities including on-site
Raised the Pride flag at our
supportive to our employees, customers and
2019 33%
are encouraged to participate in these new programs for employees, company and employee
Milford headquarters and in
vendors. We raised the Pride flag at our Milford,
the UK at our Wilmslow facility 2018 25% Multicultural, Veterans, and Pride groups at social media posts across LinkedIn, Twitter and
Massachusetts headquarters and in the UK at
the local and global levels. Facebook, theme-specific videos.
our Wilmslow facility in Cheshire. Other initiatives
2017 26%
included feedback sessions on how to cultivate
2016 14%
a more inclusive culture for Pride employees and
sponsorship of the Human Rights Campaign 2015 8%
New England Event.
16 WWaatteerrss SSuussttaaiinnaabbiilliittyy RReeppoorrtt 22002200 || GGooaall 44
Retaining our talent Attrition data benchmark Developing our people
Our people create the Waters’ difference and we At Waters, growth and development is all about Guided by our Employee Success Model, we
2017 2018 2019
consider retaining our talent one of the key success continuous learning, the evolution of oneself, and continued to provide our leaders and managers
factors of business and a critical indicator of the the constant pursuit of knowledge that makes us an opportunity to continuously grow and
Waters 7.3% 7.2% 6.8%
impact of our HR programs and initiatives. We are better and better. develop their skills and capabilities through
looking specifically at attrition, defined as voluntary Life sciences** 10.3% 11.6% 11.4% development programs for our new managers,
The centerpiece of our efforts is the “Employee
turnover. Our goal is to maintain our attrition rate and senior leaders. It is our goal that 100%
Success Model,” which defines the key
Technology ** 11.6% 12.2% 12.0%
below the industry average. of employees receive annual performance and
behaviors and attributes that drive personal and
career development reviews.
**Source: Aon Salary and Turnover Study
organizational success and helps develop all
our employees as leaders. With a dual focus on
Listening to the employee voice the “how” as well as the “what,” it is the foundation
of all our talent activities, including acquisition,
To improve our ability to listen and respond to development, performance evaluation, and rewards
employees in the initial weeks of the COVID-19 and recognition. Actively creates the conditions for Operates with integrity,
Waters people and teams to succeed transparency, and humility
virus pandemic, we used global pulse surveys to
We have been working to enhance our digital
assess employee satisfaction and needs. Insights
learning opportunities and offer a global learning
f inro cm
lu
dre ins gp o imnd pe len mts
e
l ne td
a
tt io
o
ns e ov
f
e nr ea wl k e hy
e
aa lc thti o an ns
d well-
platform to our employees. We invested in iLearn,
e F
o c u s e d A ut
h e
a leading e-learning platform featuring a collection
opl nti
being benefits, increased communication and e c
P
of videos, podcasts, and digital & audio books,
safety protocols, remote-working management
curated for and customizable by Waters employees.
support, and self-directed remote learning.
d
iLearn supports Waters employees in self-led e
d
n
professional development with tools on leadership, Mi
Balances clear A
g e Acts as a true
agility, and other topics that bring Waters’ Employee strategic thinking il
e
pris
company owner to
and accountability r
Success Model to life. Available in six languages
in execution to
Ente advance the overall
interests of Waters
plus English, iLearn can be accessed anywhere, deliver results
Outside-In Thin k e r
anytime, on any device, to watch, read or listen.
Carries a broad global perspective
of markets, technologies, and trends
supports Waters employees in
self-led professional development
17 Waters Sustainability Report 2020 | Goal 4
Our focus on global
benefits is key to
Total rewards
expanding traditional
Waters provides employees with a compensation
structure that is market focused and performance
based. In 2019, we launched a multi-year
health and welfare
review of our Total Rewards programs, including
Compensation, Benefits, Recognition and Work-
life Effectiveness, and in 2020 introduced changes
to our Annual Incentive Plan (AIP) and Long-Term
programs and making
Incentive Program to strengthen our commitment
Many of our well-being
to a performance-oriented culture.
programs provided
well-being — physical, Specifically, our compensation strategy aims to Our focus on global benefits is key to expanding
critical assistance to our
align performance-based total compensation with traditional health and welfare programs and
employees during the
our business strategy and establish and maintain making well-being — physical, emotional, social and
pay levels based on evaluation of jobs, work financial — a priority. As part of our global rewards COVID-19 virus pandemic.
emotional, social, and
performance and compensation paid elsewhere in project, we implemented a global employee
the marketplace. Our goals are to attract and retain well-being platform to provide education tools
the talented employees who are essential to the and resources through a consistent delivery
continued success of the company and, in hiring, mechanism. Many of these programs (such as
financial — a priority.
to achieve a balance between global consistency Employee Assistance Programs, Personal
and local flexibility. Well-Being Coaching, Ergonomic Assessments
for remote working, Telehealth, etc.) became critical
needs for our employee during the COVID-19
virus pandemic. Work life effectiveness and
supporting the balance between personal and
professional ambitions continues to be a priority.
Our global recognition program (Impact) is
important in recognizing the positive outcome
employees deliver to our customers, our business,
and our community, which is a critical driver of
success and an enriched workplace.
18 Waters Sustainability Report 2020 | Goal 5
5
Nurturing a culture of health,
safety and well-being
We will foster an attitude of awareness, preparedness, and responsiveness
across our workplace and throughout our supply chain.
Employee health and safety
Waters is committed to maintaining a culture in We closely monitor safety-related data measures,
Workplace safety rates (TRIR*) Workplace safety rates (LTIR*) Number of lost time cases*
which the health, safety, and well-being of all including Total Recordable Incident Rate, Lost
our employees is an integral part of our business. Time Incident Rate, and Number of Lost Time 2019 0.9 2019 0.5 2019 15
We regard the Duty of Care as more than Cases, as key indicators in our effort to achieve
2018 1.2 2018 0.4 2018 13
operational safety; rather, it is workforce risk a zero-accident workplace.
management. Our goal is to create and maintain 2017 1.4 2017 0.7 2017 21
In 2019 and 2020, Waters implemented Health,
an environment of zero harm for our employees.
2016 1.1 2016 0.5 2016 14
Safety and Environmental (HSE) data management
Waters adheres to all general safety training software to improve the timeliness, accuracy, and
*T otal recordable incident rate per *L ost time incident rate recordable incident *D ays where employee could not return to work (U.S.)
protocols, including requiring safety training for completeness of health, safety, and environmental
100 full-time employees rate per 100 full-time employees
employees. Through online and in-person training data on a global basis. Use of the software will
programs, we foster a safe workplace and ensure further facilitate development and tracking
that all employees are empowered to prevent of leading indicators, global trend analysis, and
accidents and injuries. Employees who are exposed sharing of best practices across our facilities. Our goal is to create and
to workplace hazards such as compressed gases,
biological substances, and hazardous materials also
receive specialized safety training in accordance
maintain an environment of
with regulatory requirements.
zero harm for our employees.
Operating
with integrity
20 Waters Sustainability Report 2020 | Corporate governanace
Corporate governance
We are committed to full and prompt
public disclosure and transparent
Over more than 60 years in business, Waters has established a reputation
accounting and reporting.
for maintaining the highest standard of integrity. Our commitment to ethical
business practices reinforces our company purpose to Deliver Benefit to
our customers, employees, shareholders, and society at every opportunity.
Adherence to sound governance principles is also essential to protecting
our reputation, our assets, investor confidence, and customer loyalty.
For more information
Governance documents on how Waters collects
As a public company, we are committed to full and prompt public disclosure and
and uses personal
transparent accounting and reporting. Waters employees have access to the
Audit Committee Charter (pdf) data, please see our
knowledge and resources they need to conduct business in an ethical manner.
We provide timely financial information in our quarterly earnings calls, which Privacy Disclosures
Nominating and Corporate Governance
is also available on our website and through press releases.
Committee Charter
Compensation Committee Charter (pdf)
Corporate Governance Guidelines
Global Anti-Bribery & Anti-Corruption Investor relations
Compliance Policy
Waters attracts a significant percentage of the
Global Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
market’s long-term, ESG-focused investors.
Good governance starts at the top, where our
Global Complaint Reporting Policy
Board of Directors (the “Board”) and its
UK Tax Strategy (pdf) committees are charged with ensuring that
Waters’ business is conducted in an ethical and
UK Gender Pay Gap Report 2019 (pdf)
responsible manner.
UK Gender Pay Gap Report 2018 (pdf)
UK Gender Pay Gap Report 2017 (pdf)
France Gender Equality Index 2019 (pdf)
21 Waters Sustainability Report 2020 | Corporate governanace
To learn more about our
board composition, executive
compensation and corporate
Board structure and composition Executive compensation
governance, see our proxy
statement here
The Board of Directors and its various committees We have added three new independent directors Waters’ executive compensation program is
are charged with ensuring that our business is since 2017. Currently eight of the nine directors designed to be both performance-based and
conducted and managed in a responsible manner. are considered independent under the applicable market competitive. Its goals are to focus senior
The board consists of nine members whose listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange management attention on achieving financial
primary responsibility is to protect the long-term and the company’s independence criteria. and operating objectives that enhance long-term
interests of Waters shareholders. shareholder value, align the interests of senior
Diverse perspectives are crucial to the board’s
management with shareholders, and attract and
In March 2020, Waters separated the roles of
ability to effectively oversee the strategic direction
retain senior executive talent. Incentive design
President and Chief Executive Officer and the
of the company. Current members come from
program changes we introduced in fiscal year
Chairman of the board. The board believes that
a wide range of scientific, technical, financial
2020 allow us to reinforce key objectives linked to
separating these offices strikes an appropriate
and operational backgrounds.
generating a growth mindset, rewarding individual
balance between strong leadership and
performance and aligning with best practices.
independent oversight. The President and Chief
The combination of the new Annual Incentive
Executive Officer is a director of the board and the
Plan and new Long-Term Incentive programs
eight other members are independent directors.
will keep us focused on short-term goals, while
driving us to deliver sustained long-term value
creation to our shareholders. In 2019, as in previous
years, the Compensation Committee engaged an
independent outside consultant, who participated
in committee meetings and advised on a range
Over more than 60 years
of compensation matters.
in business, Waters has
Public policy
Waters does not contribute to political campaigns
maintained a reputation or political action committees. Waters has taken
positions in industry debates and associations that
are consistent with our business goals, namely
concerning issues in the analytical instrumentation
for integrity.
industry, including certification boards and standard
setting organizations.
Benefiting society
23 Waters Sustainability Report 2020 | Community engagement
Communit y engagement
For many years, in line with Waters’ mission to Deliver Benefit to customers
and society, our philanthropy has supported the enhancement of human
health and well-being. Our efforts have focused primarily on education,
healthcare and community, which is evident in the diversity of the global STEM Live social
charitable programs we lead as well as in local initiatives. media content
can be seen here
Education STEM Live Facebook events by Waters
38.7K
We continue to enhance our STEM education advancement programming including hands-on
initiatives. We completed our first global STEM classroom presentations and demonstrations.
Job Shadow program for middle and high school Waters has committed to initial funding for the
students in partnership with Junior Achievement. development of the girls STEM program and
attendees
Waters employees volunteered their time and providing science-based volunteers to coach
expertise to demonstrate science in action to and mentor the students.
1.8K+
STEM students, on-site in the Americas, Asia
Other regional education events included the
and the European Union.
Girls STEM Summit in Boston, where female
scientists from Waters taught an Introduction to
“One hundred Waters employees responses
Separation Science class to interested girls, and
participated in the program, which
in Manchester, UK, Waters partnered with the
offered hands-on learning to Science and Industry Museum to engage and
educate students in the principles and use of mass STEM Job Shadow
approximately 200 students in six
spectrometry, including applications and how
100
countries, including China, Ireland,
it is used and applied across a range for sectors
Romania, Singapore, the United such as healthcare and the environment.
Kingdom, and the United States.”
Waters employees also created STEM Live events
Waters employees
in response to the global surge of schooling from
The Ron Burton Training Village is an enrichment home and to provide a fun and interesting way
200
program for 6th-12th grade students at risk. for parents to interact with their kids. STEM Live
Our partnership involves Waters scientists events reached 38,700 people on Facebook,
contributing time and expertise to their educational with more than 1,800 responses, and tripled the
content reach of the average Waters tweet.
students in six countries
24 Waters Sustainability Report 2020 | Community engagement
Healthcare Community
250+
Our corporate and employee charitable donations Waters employees continue to volunteer their
support a broad range of healthcare institutions, time and talent as well as their dollars to help
from Boston Children’s Hospital to a leading communities throughout the world, from packaging
cancer research center in the UK (The Christie), to 20,000 meals for distribution in Mozambique (Rise
community healthcare initiatives in India. Against Hunger) to coaching and mentoring under- charitable organizations have
privileged youth in the U.S., to donations to more
recieved donations
Waters India provided funds to the IDL Foundation
in Bangalore to support an Eye Check and
Treatment Camp for nearly 400 visually impaired than 250 distinct charitable organizations with local
people at the Modi Eye Hospital. After the free and global impact. At the corporate level, Waters’
examination, more than 100 were scheduled donations to the Red Cross continue as an integral
for cornea or cataract treatments and about 200 component of our commitment to supporting
received eyeglasses and canes. communities in need where we work and live.
$640K At our TA Instruments’ New Castle, DE facility,
over 200 employees made and packaged 3,000
lunches over the summer that were delivered
by our facilities team to Emmanuel Dining Room
in Delaware. TA employees also participated in
raised for the Dana Farber
an “Adopt-a-Child” Program by fulfilling wish lists
Cancer Institute since 2017
Waters employees volunteering for Rise Against Hunger. from 52 needy children at Ministry of Caring.
In the U.S., through the Pan-Mass Challenge,
Waters employees raised more than $640,000 in
donations for the Dana Farber Cancer Institute
since 2017. The annual bike-a-thon across
During the early months of the COVID-19
Massachusetts, established in 1980, has grown to
draw 6,700 cyclists from around the world and,
significantly, the Institute receives 100% of every pandemic, Waters donated $100,000 to
dollar raised. In 2019, 37 Waters riders raised more
Waters employees at the annual Pan-Mass Challenge in Massachusetts. than $183,000 for cancer research.
organizations such as Direct Relief and the
CDC Foundation that supplied personal
protective equipment for frontline workers.
GRI index
26 Waters Sustainability Report 2020 | GRI index — General disclosures
General disclosures
Disclosure # Disclosure title Reference/Location
102-1 Name of the organization Waters Corporation
102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services About Us, page 4; 2019 10-K, page 1; Proxy, page 1
102-3 Location of headquarters 34 Maple Street, Milford, MA 01757
102-4 Location of operations 2019 10-K, page 19
102-5 Ownership and legal form Waters is a publicly traded corporation (NYSE:WAT) and is represented in 85 countries around the world
102-6 Markets served 2019 10-K, page 2
102-7 Scale of the organization 2019 10-K, page 2
102-8 Information on employees and other workers 2019 10-K, page 9
102-9 Supply chain Supply Chain, page 13 ; 2019 10-K, page 7
102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain No significant changes in 2019
102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach The precautionary principle does not explicitly guide decisions made by Waters
102-12 External initiatives Benefiting Society, page 22
102-13 Membership of associations 2019 Partnerships
102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Leadership Letter, page 3
27 Waters Sustainability Report 2020 | GRI index — General disclosures
Disclosure # Disclosure title Reference/Location
102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Governance, page 20; Annual Report, page 12
102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior Leadership Letter, page 3; Governance, page 20
102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Proxy, page 19
102-18 Governance structure Governance, page 20; Proxy, page 14
102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics Governance, page 20
102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics Materiality, page 5
102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees Governance, page 20
102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Governance, page 20
102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body Proxy, page 10
102-25 Conflicts of interest Proxy, page 14
102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy Governance, page 20; Proxy, page 14
102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body Proxy, page 3
102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance Proxy, page 11
102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impacts Materiality, page 5
102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes Governance, page 20; Proxy page 14
102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics Governance, page 20
102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting Governance, page 20
28 Waters Sustainability Report 2020 | GRI index — General disclosures
Disclosure # Disclosure title Reference/Location
102-33 Communicating critical concerns Proxy, page 19
102-35 Remuneration policies Proxy, page 18
102-36 Process for determining remuneration Proxy, page 18
102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration Proxy, page 18
102-38 Annual total compensation ratio Proxy, page 54
102-40 List of stakeholder groups Materiality, page 5
102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 2019 10-K, page 9
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Materiality, page 5
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Materiality, page 5
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Materiality, page 5
102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 2019 10-K
102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries Materiality, page 5
102-47 List of material topics Materiality, page 5
102-48 Restatements of information None
102-49 Changes in reporting None
102-50 Reporting period Fiscal Year 2019
102-51 Date of most recent report 10/12/2019
29 Waters Sustainability Report 2020 | GRI index — General disclosures
Disclosure # Disclosure title Reference/Location
102-52 Reporting cycle Annual
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report andrew_pastor@waters.com
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards Core level
102-55 GRI content index GRI Index, page 25
102-56 External assurance None
30 Waters Sustainability Report 2020 | GRI index — Economic
Economic
Economic performance1
Disclosure # Disclosure title Reference/Location
201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Annual Report; 2019 10-K
201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change CDP Climate response; 2019 10-K
201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans Careers
201-4 Financial assistance received from government 2019 10-K, page 16
Indirect economic impacts1
Disclosure # Disclosure title Reference/Location
203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported Sustainability by Design (Taunton), page 12
Anti-corruption1
Disclosure # Disclosure title Reference/Location
205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption Global Anti-Bribery & Anti-Corruption Policy
205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures Global Anti-Bribery & Anti-Corruption Policy
205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Global Anti-Bribery & Anti-Corruption Policy
1 Material topic managed as part of company strategy
31 Waters Sustainability Report 2020 | GRI index — Environmental
Environmental
Energy1
Disclosure # Disclosure title Reference/Location
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization CDP Climate response; Reducing Our Environmental Impact, page 11
302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization CDP Climate response; Reducing Our Environmental Impact, page 11
302-3 Energy intensity CDP Climate response; Reducing Our Environmental Impact, page 11
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption CDP Climate response; Reducing Our Environmental Impact, page 11
302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services ACQUITY, page 8
Water1
Disclosure # Disclosure title Reference/Location
303-4 Water discharge Reducing Our Environmental Impact, page 11
303-5 Water consumption Reducing Our Environmental Impact, page 11
Emissions1
Disclosure # Disclosure title Reference/Location
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions CDP Climate response; Reducing Our Environmental Impact, page 11
1 Material topic managed as part of company strategy
32 Waters Sustainability Report 2020 | GRI index — Environmental
Emissions1
Disclosure # Disclosure title Reference/Location
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions CDP Climate response; Reducing Our Environmental Impact, page 11
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions CDP Climate response; Reducing Our Environmental Impact, page 11
305-4 GHG emissions intensity CDP Climate response; Reducing Our Environmental Impact, page 11
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions CDP Climate response; Reducing Our Environmental Impact, page 11
Effluents and waste1
Disclosure # Disclosure title Reference/Location
306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Health, Safety and Environmental Policy, page 18
Environmental compliance1
Disclosure # Disclosure title Reference/Location
307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations None
Effluents and waste1
Disclosure # Disclosure title Reference/Location
306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination Water table, page 12
1 Material topic managed as part of company strategy
33 Waters Sustainability Report 2020 | GRI index — Social
Social
Employment1
Disclosure # Disclosure title Reference/Location
401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Leading by Example in Employee Development and Engagement, page 15
401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees Careers
Occupational health and safety1
Disclosure # Disclosure title Reference/Location
403-1 Occupational health and safety management system Health, Safety and Environmental Policy; Nurturing our Culture, Health, Safety and Wellbeing, page 18
Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism,
403-2 Health, Safety and Environmental Policy; Nurturing our Culture, Health, Safety and Wellbeing, page 18
and number of work-related fatalities
403-9 Work-related injuries Health, Safety and Environmental Policy; Nurturing our Culture, Health, Safety and Wellbeing, page 18
Training and education1
Disclosure # Disclosure title Reference/Location
404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs Leading by Example in Employee Development and Engagement, page 15
404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews Developing our People, page 16
1 Material topic managed as part of company strategy
34 Waters Sustainability Report 2020 | GRI index — Social
Diversity and equal opportunity1
Disclosure # Disclosure title Reference/Location
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Proxy, page 3
Non-discrimination1
Disclosure # Disclosure title Reference/Location
406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 2019 10-K, page 20
Freedom of association and collective bargaining1
Disclosure # Disclosure title Reference/Location
407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at risk Supply chain sustainability, page 13
Forced or compulsory labor1
Disclosure # Disclosure title Reference/Location
409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor Supply chain sustainability, page 13
1 Material topic managed as part of company strategy
35 Waters Sustainability Report 2020 | GRI index — Social
Local communities1
Disclosure # Disclosure title Reference/Location
413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs Community Engagement, page 23
Public policy1
Disclosure # Disclosure title Reference/Location
415-1 Political contributions Public Policy, page 21
Customer health and safety1
Disclosure # Disclosure title Reference/Location
416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service categories LCA, page 14
416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services None
1 Material topic managed as part of company strategy
36 Waters Sustainability Report 2020 | Awards
Awards and recognition
We seek feedback from
stakeholders each year, which
informs our selection of content
ACE 30% Club
for sustainability reporting.
Achievement in Customer 30% Club membership (for representation You can contact us via email at
Excellence awards program of women on our board of directors) sustainability@waters.com
About this repor t
CDP Forbes Global 2000
This sustainability report covers Waters’ approach not statements of historical fact may be deemed forward-looking
statements. Without limiting the foregoing, the words “will,” “believes”,
to sustainability and corporate responsibility and
CDP Climate respondent The World’s Best Employers #177 “anticipates”, “expects”, “estimates” and similar expressions, whether
our global progress on environmental, social, and
in the negative or affirmative, are intended to identify forward-looking
governance (ESG) topics through the 2019 calendar statements. Forward-looking statements are based on assumptions
and assessments made by the Company’s management in light
year, with key highlights from 2019 and the first
of their experience and perceptions of historical trends, current
half of 2020.
conditions, expected future developments and other factors. Forward-
looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and
This report was developed in accordance with the actual future results and events may differ significantly from the results
and events discussed in the forward-looking statements within this
Core Level of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)
report for a variety of reasons, including the factors that are discussed
Sustainability Reporting Standards as noted in
in the sections entitled “Forward-Looking Statements” and “Risk
the GRI Index starting on page 25. We published Factors” of the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K for the year
ended December 31, 2019 as filed with the Securities and Exchange
our most recent sustainability report in 2019,
Commission (“SEC”), as updated by the Company’s subsequent filings
which contained data covering the 2014 to 2018
with the SEC. Accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on
calendar years. any such forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements
included in this report represent the Company’s estimates or views as
“This report contains “forward-looking” statements regarding future of the date of this report and should not be relied upon as representing
results and events, including statements regarding our sustainability the Company’s estimates or views as of any date subsequent to the
targets, goals, commitments and programs and other business plans, date of this report. Except as required by law, the Company does not
initiatives and objectives. For this purpose, any statements that are assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements.”
moc.nosidda.www
nosiddA
yb
ngiseD
Waters Corporation T: 1-508-478-2000
34 Maple Street F: 1-508-872-1990
Milford, MA 01757 waters.com
© 2020 Waters Corporation.
