Unlocking
the potential
of science
2021 Sustainability Report
Table of Contents
03 About us 13 Innovations that change
the world for the better
04 Waters at a glance
05 A message from Dr. Udit Batra 14 Introduction
06 Our COVID-19 response 15 Pharmaceutical and biomedical
innovation
16 Materials innovation
17 Food and environment innovation
07 O ur commitment
18 Clinical innovation
to sustainability
08 Sustainability strategy
09 Sustainability goals 19 GRI/SASB disclosures
10 Environmental impact
20 GRI index
11 Social impact
37 SASB index
12 Governance
Waters Sustainability Report 2021
About Our commitment Innovations that change GRI/SASB
3
us to sustainability the world for the better disclosures
About us
Waters Sustainability Report 2021
About Our commitment Innovations that change GRI/SASB 4
us to sustainability the world for the better disclosures
Waters at
Operates in
35
a glance
Our products
countries
are available in
more than 100
countries
Waters Corporation is a technology
innovator in chromatography, mass
spectrometry, and thermal analysis
instruments and software serving the life,
materials, and food sciences industries
for more than 60 years. We deliver
scientific insights to improve human
health and well-being.
14
$2.37B
manufacturing
facilities in revenue in 2020
For more information on
our locations, strategy, and
financial results, visit
waters.com and read our
2020 Annual Report.
7,400+
employees
Waters Sustainability Report 2021
About Our commitment Innovations that change GRI/SASB 5
us to sustainability the world for the better disclosures
Continuing to deliver through the pandemic towards transitioning our most energy-intensive
manufacturing facilities to renewable and/or
We responded to the pandemic by staying true to
low-carbon electricity sources. We aim to have
our guiding principles: keeping employees and their
more than 50% of our electricity coming from
families safe, supporting public health, and ensuring
renewable sources by 2025.
the uninterrupted delivery of Waters products and
expertise to our customers, many of whom were • We launched a new STEM program aimed
and are on the front lines, developing vaccines, at supporting historically Black colleges and
Committed to positive impact therapeutics, and diagnostics to fight COVID-19. universities (HBCU). The program is a hands-on,
immersive experience that combines scholarships,
In 2021 we lost our founder, Jim Waters, who Our Scientific Advisory Council and Business Continuity
local mentoring, career coaching, and Waters’
passed away at the age of 95. A brilliant scientist Taskforce worked closely together to ensure that all
equipment. We continued our partnership with
and businessman, his revolutionary work in liquid decisions were guided by science and informed by data,
Junior Achievement Worldwide to bring STEM
chromatography propelled the discipline of separation and the results speak for themselves: Across 82 sites
education to thousands of students around the
science and continues to drive innovation across the around the world, we had zero confirmed COVID-19
world and in parallel we developed a new pilot
life, materials, and food sciences today. Throughout his on-site transmissions during the reporting period.
internship program in partnership with Team New
life, Jim sought to deliver benefit, and his success in
England to give underserved high school students
that regard is an inspiration to us all.
exposure to STEM careers through a unique
Making progress against our goals
hands-on experience.
In that spirit, we pursue goals and initiatives that build
I’m pleased to report that we have also made meaningful
on Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG)
• Last year we added the Global Reporting Index
progress against our 2025 Sustainability Goals.
principles to fuel innovation and make a positive
(GRI) and this year evolved our reporting process
impact for our customers, employees, shareholders,
to offer greater transparency and data to our
A message from and society.
stakeholders, by including detailed disclosures in
I’m proud of our teams and the important
line with the Sustainability Accounting Standards
These include doing our part to reduce our
work they achieved in this challenging time.
Board (SASB).
Dr. Udit Batra environmental footprint and leave the world better
The journey to reaching these goals is ever
than when we found it, targeted efforts to help us
evolving, and we will continue to work toward We welcome your feedback as we continue to engage
become more representative of the diverse society
making a positive impact year over year. with employees, customers, shareholders, and other
we live in, and governance initiatives that enhance
stakeholders to pursue our mission to positively impact
long-term shareholder value through thoughtful and
the world, leaving it better than we found it.
As we look back on a year of
effective oversight. This report shares progress made towards our goals
considerable challenge as well as in 2020 and the first half of 2021, including: Sincerely,
This year’s report highlights the impact of the work we
important progress, Waters continues
do and the customers we serve across Pharmaceutical • We obtained approximately 27% of our total Dr. Udit Batra
to focus on the future and our business
& Biomedical, Materials, Food & Environment, and electricity consumption from renewable and/or President & Chief Executive
imperative: to deliver benefit. Clinical markets. low-carbon sources, and we are working Officer, Waters Corporation
Waters Sustainability Report 2021
About Our commitment Innovations that change GRI/SASB 6
us to sustainability the world for the better disclosures
Our COVID-19 response
1. Ensuring the safety and employees get within six feet 2. Helping mitigate a public • Virtually supporting more than test PCR sample preparation, • Supporting rapid scale-up
well-being of employees of each other — essential for health crisis with our 40 collaborations and providing through the use of our Andrew+ production of generic anti-
contact tracing expertise and products chemistry consumables and pipetting robot technology that viral drugs and developing
To limit exposure and help stop
operating support to more than was acquired by Waters in 2020 new business models to help
• Employing on-site COVID-19
the spread of COVID-19 within We created the Innovation
20 clinical laboratories customers with COVID-19
rapid antigen and PCR testing at
our facilities, we employed a data- Response Team (IRT) in March
challenges with access to
major U.S. and UK facilities that • Helping pharmaceutical
driven, science-based approach to 2020 to support customers — and
3. Maintaining business their labs and timely evaluation
have been accessed >400,000 researchers with rapid
our health and safety protocols. We the global scientific community
continuity of samples
times by employees, contractors development of methods
ensured uninterrupted operations at-large — to quickly determine
for essential laboratory, support and visitors from March 2020 what they needed to accelerate on Waters systems used Our COVID-19 protocols helped • Conducting research to
to June 2021. We also made test to characterize the mRNA support the UK National
and distribution, and manufacturing their COVID-19 efforts. IRT Waters to remain at high
kits available to field employees molecules that have become Health Service’s Test and
staff who required on-site access activities included: productive capacity through a
in the U.S. and EU. COVID-19 vaccines Trace Program involving
throughout the pandemic. We period of uncertainty, while also
did so by establishing a Scientific • Leveraging our global supply • Enabling scientists to set up supporting the company during a liquid chromatography-
Advisory Council and Business ZERO confirmed chain and global field support electronic pipette samples an unprecedented period of sales mass spectrometry (LC-MS)
to create access to critically alternative to PCR testing;
Continuity Task Force to translate remotely, safely, and efficiently, growth. With negligible impact on
COVID-19 on-site
needed supplies and equipment together with UK-NHS labs
the latest COVID-19 research and avoiding the need for laborious productivity, we were able to meet
government guidelines into new transmissions when many laboratories were liquid handling for COVID-19 delivery deadlines and industry and other academic and
operating with limited resources government research scientists,
policies and safety measures, across 82 global requests to aid ongoing research
Waters developed its Research
including: and testing. Highlights included:
sites during the Use Only (RUO) kit for SARS-
• Increased sanitation and CoV-2 to help the clinical
reporting period.
in-depth reviews of air flow research community more
and filtration systems based closely analyze the virus,
on models developed by its modes of infection
Massachusetts Institute of and its rate of
Technology replication
• Adopting proximity sensor
technology to measure physical
distance between people
and sound an alarm when
Waters Sustainability Report 2021
About Our commitment Innovations that change GRI/SASB
7
us to sustainability the world for the better disclosures
Our
commitment to
sustainability
Waters Sustainability Report 2021
About Our commitment Innovations that change GRI/SASB
8
us to sustainability the world for the better disclosures
Sustainability strategy
Our mission is to Deliver Benefit™
Waters unlocks the potential of science with
analytical measurement technology, deep expertise,
and reliable insights that enhance human health
and well-being. Our founder, Jim Waters, coined the
Our focus is customer success
phrase Deliver Benefit to express the idea that we
should positively impact our customers, employees,
Waters is continually advancing our new product
shareholders, and society at every opportunity. The
and services pipeline to deliver the insights
phrase is our bedrock and the guiding force behind
needed today in order to solve the challenges of
our decisions and actions. From the development
tomorrow. Waters creates business advantages
of life-saving pharmaceuticals to ensuring the
for laboratory organizations through practical and
safety of the world’s food and water supplies or the
sustainable scientific innovation. Waters systems and
integrity of a chemical entity in production, we are
applications provide the performance, confidence,
constantly working to help our customers to leave
and accuracy that today’s labs depend on to power
this world better than we found it. Our commitment
their business-critical functions. With reliable insights
to sustainability derives from our focus on advancing
and deep experience in laboratory infrastructure and
scientific progress to enhance human health and
measurement, we help our customers make profound
well-being.
discoveries, optimize lab operations, deliver product
performance, and ensure regulatory compliance.
Our connected portfolio of separation and analytical
science, laboratory informatics, thermal analysis, and
mass spectrometry delivers a powerful platform for
customer success.
Waters Sustainability Report 2021
About Our commitment Innovations that change GRI/SASB
9
us to sustainability the world for the better disclosures
Sustainability goals
Our materiality assessment identified key Goals for 2025
areas where we can drive sustainability 1 2
Our commitment to sustainability
throughout the organization.
derives from our focus on
Cultivating and advancing Reducing our
advancing scientific progress to
We engaged with internal business leaders to develop our innovation ecosystem environmental impact
enhance human health and well-
and commit to our first set of five-year sustainability
being. We believe that sustainable
goals, which align with our mission to Deliver Benefit to We will systematically implement We will improve our operations
activities inspire innovation
our customers, employees, shareholders, and society. measurable, sustainable practices performance by decreasing
and contribute to operational
in how we innovate, develop, and environmental impact and
To learn more about our progress against our excellence, so we try to integrate deliver our products. increasing natural resource
innovation ecosystem goal (#1), see our innovation sustainable thinking and practice efficiency.
stories starting on page 13. For more details on into our strategy, operations, and
progress against our environmental impact (#2), products.
supply chain (#3), employee development and
engagement (#4) and culture (#5) goals, see the
following ESG highlights pages as well as our
GRI and SASB disclosures. 3 4 5
Enhancing our sustainable Leading by example in our Nurturing a culture of health,
supply chain employee development and safety, and well-being
engagement
We will advance a product and We will foster an attitude of
supply chain sustainability program We continue to focus on the awareness, preparedness, and
that identifies opportunities to employees we have today — and responsiveness across our
improve our products’ impact the employees we will need workplace and throughout our
across engineering, procurement, tomorrow — through programs supply chain.
and operations. and initiatives that drive diversity,
inclusion, and development.
Waters Sustainability Report 2021
About Our commitment Innovations that change GRI/SASB
10
us to sustainability the world for the better disclosures
Environmental impact
Strengthening Reassessing facility Implementing greener Reducing solvent use Evolving our fleet program
environmental oversight resource use packaging
Our new Premier, Arc Premier We’re converting our U.S. and
We merged our Product With many employees working We are innovating better designs and MaxPeak™ products optimize European service vehicle fleet
Stewardship and Sustainability from home, we identified key for our highest-volume product liquid chromatography, allowing to hybrid and electric vehicles.
functions into one organization drivers of energy, waste and packaging to reduce weight customers to process smaller We expect to switch over
under a new Sustainability water use in our facilities. We and phase out non-recyclable samples with less solvent that approximately 90 vehicles by
Director, to ensure our will incorporate these learnings to materials. Reductions in materials, can be toxic in the environment. the end of 2021. We expect
environmental initiatives for develop future reduction targets. transportation and waste disposal Additional benefits include faster our fleet to be 50% hybrid or
products and operations are will result in an estimated sample processing time, simplified electric by the end of 2025, with
closely aligned. elimination of 450,000 kg of CO instrument configuration, and more approximately 10% of our fleet
2
emissions annually. dependable analytical results. converted by the end of 2021.
Our EMEA-based staff who drive
company-provided cars now
have the option to drive ULEV
Reducing GHG emissions Increasing renewable Evaluating supplier (ultra-low emission hybrid or
year-over-year* energy use sustainability fully electric) vehicles and we
introduced CO caps on all new
2
As of December 31, 2020, we Our facilities in Wilmslow and As we expand our environmental EMEA vehicle choices.
reduced total Scope 1 & 2 (direct) Solihull, England; Wexford, Ireland; management systems (EMS) to
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and Huellhorst, Germany, are additional sites, we’re monitoring
by 10.3% from a 2016 baseline. In sourcing 100% of their electricity our vendors’ performance.
addition, we began measuring our from renewable energy and/or More than 50% of our direct
Scope 3 (indirect) GHGs, starting low-carbon electricity. We plan procurement spend in 2020 was
with employee commuting, to convert to renewables for with suppliers who have set
For more information
business travel, waste disposal other large sites, starting with our sustainability goals or disclose
on our environmental
and fugitive emissions. corporate headquarters in 2022. environmental KPIs such as GHG
impacts, see page 28.
emissions through an annual
sustainability report.
Waters Sustainability Report 2021 * GHG emissions data were revised in March 2023 to correct a historical reporting error. As a result, 2020 GHG emissions were 10.3% lower than 2016 baseline, not 9.7% as originally reported. See GRI index for more information.
About Our commitment Innovations that change GRI/SASB
11
us to sustainability the world for the better disclosures
Social impact
Fostering an inclusive culture Enabling STEM mentorship Ensuring diversity in Providing COVID-19 personal Refining our charitable
starts with creating a sense at Historically Black Colleges recruiting protective equipment (PPE) purpose
of belonging. We want every and Universities (HBCUs)
In 2020, we implemented the During the early months of the Waters has a long history
employee to bring their true selves
In June 2020, Waters Principal Diverse Slate Recruiting initiative pandemic, Waters donated of supporting charitable
to work and feel they are making
Systems Specialist Kory Morrow requiring that all employee $100,000 to organizations such organizations around the globe,
a difference. We do this through
set out on a mission to embed positions have at least two diverse as Direct Relief and the CDC and we continuously strive to
employee engagement efforts,
Waters systems and STEM candidates interviewed. To help Foundation that supplied personal increase our impact on the
such as volunteering initiatives
mentorship in teaching labs at achieve this, we have developed protective equipment for frontline communities where we live and
and discussions hosted by our
Employee Circles to increase HBCUs, including Delaware State hiring partnerships with diversity workers. Similar efforts continued serve. In the first half of 2021, we For more
understanding around diversity, University (Dover, DE), Clark recruiting vendors aligned to our in the first half of 2021 when the refined our charitable focus to information on
Atlanta University (Atlanta, GA), Employee Circles including Hire Waters facilities team distributed align more closely with our three
equity, and inclusion. We are our social impact,
and Cheyney University (Cheyney, Heroes, PowerToFly, National PPE valued at $150,000 to five philanthropic pillars:
proud to share we scored 95 see page 32.
PA). Tragically, in September 2020, Society of Black Engineers, and school districts surrounding the
out of 100 on the 2021 Human
1. Improving health and
Kory unexpectedly passed away. Out in Tech. Waters headquarters in Milford,
Rights Campaign Foundation’s
well-being by supporting
With the blessing of Kory’s family, MA helping to keep students
Corporate Equality Index, in part
organizations that ensure food
we are continuing the program and staff safe as schools began
for enhancing many benefits for
safety and security and greater
in his memory. Partners will reopening for in-person learning.
our Waters LGBTQ+ community.
access to clinical diagnostics
each receive Waters equipment,
and medicines.
software, two years of warranty
and support and local mentoring 2. Investing in future talent by 3. Supporting organizations that
for a hands-on immersion supporting STEM education are aligned with our diversity
experience. for elementary, middle and high and inclusion efforts and the
school students with a special intent of our Employee Circles.
focus on supporting minorities
and women in STEM.
Waters Sustainability Report 2021
About Our commitment Innovations that change GRI/SASB
12
us to sustainability the world for the better disclosures
Governance Awards
MSCI
2020 AA ESG
rating
Transitioning to new Overseeing ESG efforts Improving Board and
leadership executive leadership diversity
We continue to attract a
Human Rights
In March 2020, Waters separated significant percentage of the As of May 12, 2021, our nine-
Campaign
the roles of President and market’s long-term, ESG-focused member executive team is 66%
Chief Executive Officer and the investors. Part of how we do that diverse, when looking at gender
95 out of 100 score
Chairman of the Board. The Board is through managing our ESG and ethnicity combined. 44% of
on 2021 Corporate
believes that separating these risks and opportunities through executive leadership are women,
Equality Index
offices strikes an appropriate our company and sharing our and 33% are ethnically diverse. Our
Institutional
balance between strong leadership ESG efforts with our customers Board is 40% diverse, when looking
Shareholder Services
and independent oversight. The and shareholders. at gender and ethnicity combined.
President and Chief Executive 20% of the Board are women, and
1, 2 and 3 scores out of 10
Officer is a director of the Board 30% are ethnically diverse.
for E, S and G in 2020 with
and the eight other members are
the lower scores indicating
independent directors.
low concern level
Dr. Udit Batra joined Waters in
September 2020 as our new
Drucker
President and Chief Executive
Institute
Officer. In this role, Dr. Batra
has helped Waters navigate
2020 list of 250
through the many challenges
best managed
of the pandemic, and is guiding
companies
the organization in achieving its
Sustainalytics
sustainability goals.
2020 Low Risk
Rating
Waters Sustainability Report 2021
About Our commitment Innovations that change GRI/SASB
13
us to sustainability the world for the better disclosures
Innovations
that change
the world for
the better
Waters Sustainability Report 2021
About Our commitment Innovations that change GRI/SASB
14
us to sustainability the world for the better disclosures
Leaving the world
better than we
found it
Our approach to create toward the next generation
innovation is centered of scientific advancements.
around collaborating with
Additionally, in early 2021, we
our customers to solve formed an Innovation Board to
their toughest problems. adopt a scientifically grounded,
long-term perspective on helping
our customers solve tough
In September 2020, Waters
business problems. The group,
opened Immerse Cambridge, an
comprised of our senior scientists
Innovation and Research Lab.
and commercial team members,
Located in the heart of Kendall
meets monthly to present
Square, a globally recognized
new ideas and determine future
hotspot for biotechnology, science,
Pharmaceutical Materials Food and Clinical
investments.
and engineering in Cambridge,
and Biomedical Environment
Massachusetts, Immerse Cambridge
The following are just a few Our technologies are Our newborn screening
is a strategic, collaborative space
examples of how we are supporting investments instruments have
Our solutions help detect Our sensitive and efficient
in the community, where Waters
collaborating with our customers vital to making plastics that brought critical screening
drug impurities such as solutions to test for
partners with academia, research,
to ensure together we are leaving support a circular economy, technology into labs
nitrosamines, so that contaminants such as
and industry to accelerate and co-
the world better than we found it. preserve human health, and worldwide, helping to test
pharmaceuticals can reliably mycotoxins help secure the
fight climate change. millions of babies each year.
improve health and save lives. safety of our global food
supply while protecting
public health.
Waters Sustainability Report 2021
About Our commitment Innovations that change GRI/SASB
15
us to sustainability the world for the better disclosures
PHARMACEUTICAL AND BIOMEDICAL INNOVATION
Ensuring the safety of the
reports of toxins such as nitrosamines. In early 2018, Customer story
medicines we take
nitrosamines were detected in several medicines,
Korean company Vivagen chose Waters
including the antacid drug Zantac and the diabetes
nitrosamine testing technologies and software
drug Metformin. In response to this crisis, regulatory
over numerous other vendors because they
agencies issued product recalls and put pressure on
knew this combination would provide them
the pharmaceutical industry to improve quality control.
the accuracy, sensitivity and reproducibility
To help guarantee the highest quality of drugs of results they required.
to keep patients safe, and avoid economic and
reputational damage, Waters developed solutions to
Pharmaceutical companies design drugs
detect nitrosamines in compliance with regulations.
to improve health and save lives, but if
Since nitrosamines can have a large impact at small As more drugs are exported from
the drugs become contaminated, they concentrations, we provide instruments that can Korea in the future, the standards for
can cause serious harm. meet the lowest regulatory limits with the highest nitrosamine testing are becoming
sensitivity capabilities in line with industry compliance stricter. With our compliance testing
One form of contamination is nitrosamines. They are a regulations. Our Xevo TQ portfolio, led by the TQ-XS, firmly established, we’re enabling
type of impurity commonly found at low levels in water is able to quantify these impurities at low levels.* our customers to provide confident
and foods, which may increase the risk of cancer if When that level of sensitivity isn’t required — testing assurance to regulators, and safety
people are exposed to them above acceptable levels raw materials, for instance — Waters provides other for consumers.
over long periods of time. customized solutions. Our scientists also provide
Han-Ul Lee,
local support with global knowledge, to ensure
On average, about 4,500 drugs and medical devices pharmaceutical customers can manufacture safe Vivagen, Sales and Marketing Manager
are pulled from U.S. shelves each year for a variety medicines.
of reasons, ranging from packaging issues to
* FDA CFR 21, Part 11
Waters Sustainability Report 2021
About Our commitment Innovations that change GRI/SASB
16
us to sustainability the world for the better disclosures
MATERIALS INNOVATION Of all the plastic waste produced
since 1950, only nine percent has been
Harnessing
recycled.
green From reusable packaging to durable, lightweight down when they are supposed to, and eventually, Customer story
construction materials, plastics can help solve return to their virgin material state so they can be re-
countless engineering challenges. However, used, reducing plastic waste. In many cases, the new The Sustainable Materials Research
fossil-fuel-based plastics can also contribute to system allows manufacturers to conduct testing using Laboratory at Rowan University in
analytical environmental pollution, and not all plastics are easily less solvents that could later poison waterways. New Jersey, U.S. is using Waters and TA
recycled. In response, Waters is helping customers Instruments products to develop (bio)
develop safer polymers for plastic manufacturing Another newly introduced system, the X3 DSC degradable polymers that could also
chemistry that are more sustainable, (bio)degradable and/or (Differentially Scanning Calorimeter), combines be recyclable.
recyclable. We are also helping scientists develop valuable information about polymer melting
materials that can save energy. Our technologies and crystallinity with the unmatched ability to
are supporting investments in R&D that are vital to simultaneously test three samples. This breakthrough
for a safer making plastics that support a circular economy, innovation increases throughput and reduces test- It’s high-risk, high-reward research.
preserve human health and fight climate change. time compared to traditional DSCs, enabling scientists However, it is worth pursuing...
to rapidly screen and validate new, sustainable The information we gather will help
Waters ACQUITY Advanced Polymer Chromatography polymers. us...promote meaningful and,
environment
(APC) testing system provides plastics manufacturers hopefully, long-lasting, change
the insights they need to design higher-performing One application of our TA instruments thermal analysis towards sustainability.
biomaterials. These (bio)degradable polymers break and rheology solutions is to test construction industry
materials that enable greater energy efficiency, such Dr. Joseph F. Stanzione, III,
as sealants, insulation and white roof coatings. With Associate Professor of
buildings in the U.S. accounting for approximately Chemical Engineering
40 percent of the country’s energy consumption,
advances in these materials offer an important way
to reduce energy use and be resilient against climate
change. Other applications of this technology — such as
helping customers develop materials that result in more
sustainable packaging and safer cars — offer analytical
solutions to meet the challenges of the future.
Waters Sustainability Report 2021
About Our commitment Innovations that change GRI/SASB
17
us to sustainability the world for the better disclosures
tests each year. From one sample extraction, Waters Customer story
Myco 5-in-1 PLUS can provide numeric results for
the six most regulated mycotoxins in fewer than 10
minutes, thereby making testing more efficient for food
companies while safeguarding consumer health. The VICAM’s AflaTest immunoaffinity
FOOD AND ENVIRONMENT INNOVATION Nearly 600 million people suffer from Waters test strip can be done on-site, making it more columns are used in both the laboratory
foodborne illnesses each year globally. convenient for food producers, whether it be on the and field locations to detect aflatoxins in
Keeping our
farm where crops are harvested, at the mills and grain maize/corn. The dual function enables
The majority of these cases are entirely preventable elevators where food is processed and stored, or at support from laboratory to field testing
and put a huge burden on our healthcare systems. shipping points and pre-screening labs. to flow in a natural way since the
food safe One such avoidable food contaminant is the toxic sample preparation procedure is nearly
For cost savings to a customer who is a specialty
group of compounds called mycotoxins. Mycotoxins identical and each testing environment
corn miller with more than 30 finished products in
are naturally occurring and produced by certain mold would utilize a field based fluorometer
the organic, GMO-free and other corn-based food
or fungi. These stealthy, harmful toxins can make their or a laboratory LC system.
from farm processing products, the impact of a finished product
way undetected into finished consumer products,
being contaminated is upwards of $5 million. This Dr. Tim Herrman, Texas State Chemist
including cereal, milk, egg and nut products, and
includes costs savings related to immediate recall and Director, Professor
even drinking water. Corn, one of the most widely
compliance, lawsuits and litigation, lost business,
to fork
used ingredients in food products such as corn meal,
insurance premiums and ongoing business losses
tortillas and animal feed, is highly susceptible to
from media attention and word-of-mouth reputation
contamination.
damage. By contrast, as part of a preventative
Mycotoxins are strongly linked to cancer, kidney monitoring program, disposing of contaminated
and liver damage and chronic immunosuppression, product in a truck or rail car might cost the company
and other serious health problems when ingested far less, as little as $8,000 to $10,000.*
in minute amounts over the long term. In addition to
With increased demand for mycotoxin testing, our
putting human and animal health at risk, mycotoxins
secure method of detecting several mycotoxins
also present a serious threat to global food security,
simultaneously is more critical than ever. We will
as they decrease access to healthy food. That’s why
continue to innovate testing solutions that meet the
it’s critical to test for mycotoxins early and often to
growing needs of food producers while protecting
mitigate risk.
public health.
Waters VICAM™ mycotoxin testing solutions help
keep our global food supply safe and are used by
our customers to perform hundreds of thousands of
* This estimation was based on the market price of corn at the time of publishing of this report.
Waters Sustainability Report 2021
About Our commitment Innovations that change GRI/SASB
18
us to sustainability the world for the better disclosures
CLINICAL INNOVATION
Bringing new parents
Customer story
peace of mind through
Birmingham Women’s and Children’s
Hospital in the UK integrated Waters
hundreds of screening labs across the globe, helping
solutions and software enabling them to
newborn screening to test the majority of more than 30 million babies
measure many metabolites in a small, dried
screened worldwide each year. Our instruments are
blood spot sample and thereby detect a larger
capable of screening for more than 30 inborn disorders
number of rare conditions that can then be
from a single dried blood spot sample collected shortly
treated and managed in a timely fashion.
after birth.
The joy a parent feels when their Advances in newborn screening technologies have
While Waters is humbled that our newborn screening
baby is born is indescribable, as is made a healthy adult life possible for millions of
solutions have helped to improve and save lives,
children. The real game changer came with the
the importance of ensuring that their
the majority of the roughly 140 million babies born We run the samples on two identical
innovation of tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS),
newborn is healthy and safe. each year still receive no screening at all. We hope Waters ACQUITY™ UPLC™ I-Class /
bringing a cost-effective, simple and rapid way to
to change that by continuing to bring our technology Xevo™ TQD IVDs overnight, so the
screen newborns for not just one, but multiple diseases
Thanks to modern screening techniques, including into more testing facilities, innovating to test for even results are all ready to evaluate first
in a single analysis. Waters newborn screening
the use of tandem mass spectrometry, we now have more diseases, and advocating for increased access to thing the following morning. We
instruments have brought MS/MS technology into
the ability to diagnose many life-altering, or even newborn screening across the globe. wouldn’t be able to analyze the quantity
deadly, conditions within the first few days of birth. of samples that meet the quality of
The symptoms of many congenital genetic, metabolic, national guidelines, without these
endocrine and infectious diseases, such as cystic tandem mass spectrometers.
fibrosis or sickle cell disease, aren’t apparent until
Dr. Pippa Goddard,
days, or even weeks, after birth. Early detection can
Consultant Clinical Biochemist
help prevent serious harm to a baby’s health, and
often results in early interventions that can avoid
unnecessary suffering and lead to remarkable health
outcomes.
Waters Sustainability Report 2021
About Our commitment Innovations that change GRI/SASB
19
us to sustainability the world for the better disclosures
GRI/SASB
disclosures
Waters Sustainability Report 2021
About Our commitment Innovations that change GRI/SASB
20
us to sustainability the world for the better disclosures
This sustainability report covers Waters’ approach to sustainability and corporate GRI 102-4 Location of operations
responsibility and our global progress on environmental, social and governance (ESG) Waters Corporation operates 20 United States facilities and 71 international facilities, including field offices. Waters
operates in 35 countries, including 14 manufacturing facilities. For additional information, see 2020 10-K, page 24
topics through the 2020 calendar year, with key data from the Fiscal Year ending
(“Primary Facility Locations”).
December 31, 2020 and some highlights from the first half of 2021 included. This
report was developed in accordance with the Core Level of the Global Reporting GRI 102-5 Ownership and legal form
Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Standards as well as the Sustainability Waters Corporation, organized as a Delaware corporation in 1991, is a holding company that owns all of the
outstanding common stock of Waters Technologies Corporation, its operating subsidiary. Waters Corporation
Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Standards for the Healthcare — Medical
became a publicly-traded company with its initial public offering in November 1995. Waters Corporation trades on
Equipment & Supplies Sector.
the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol WAT.
GRI 102-6 Markets served
Waters’ products are used by pharmaceutical, biochemical, industrial, nutritional safety, environmental, academic,
GRI INDEX
and governmental customers working in research and development, quality assurance and other laboratory
General Disclosures applications. For more information, see 2020 10-K, pages 4-8 (“Waters Products and Markets” and “TA Products
and Markets”).
GRI 102-7 Scale of the organization
2020 10-K, page 3 (“General”)
Organizational profile
GRI 102-8 Information on employees and other workers
GRI 102-1 Name of the organization Waters employed approximately 7,400 employees as of December 31, 2020. For more information, see 2020 10-K,
Waters Corporation page 11 (“Human Capital”).
GRI 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services GRI 102-9 Supply chain
About us, page 3 2020 10-K, page 9 (“Manufacturing and Distribution”)
Innovations that change the world for the better, page 13 GRI 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain
Since the period covered in our 2020 Sustainability Report, we have added additional assets through the
2020 10-K, page 3 (“General”) acquisition of Andrew Alliance, S.A. and Integrated Software Solutions Pty Limited. These changes have had
neither a material impact on the company’s operations, supply chain or environmental and social impact as
2021 Proxy, page 1 (“What is Waters Corporation”) discussed in this report, nor on our corporate governance practices.
GRI 102-3 Location of headquarters GRI 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach
34 Maple Street, Milford, Massachusetts, United States The precautionary principle does not explicitly guide decisions Waters makes.
Waters Sustainability Report 2021
About Our commitment Innovations that change GRI/SASB
21
us to sustainability the world for the better disclosures
GRI 102-12 External initiatives GRI 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities
Waters philanthropic efforts are focused on improving the quality of life in the communities where we work and 2020 10-K, pages 15-24 (“Risk Factors”)
live. This is mostly done through our financial support of relevant non-profit organizations which align with our
business and purpose, as well as through volunteering activities which utilize our scientific expertise. Our primary
Ethics and integrity
philanthropic pillars are as follows:
• Health and well-being: Improving health and well-being by supporting organizations that ensure food safety
and security, and greater access to clinical diagnostics and medicines GRI 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior
A message from Udit Batra, page 5
• STEM education: Investing in future talent by supporting STEM education for elementary, middle and high
Corporate Governance Guidelines
school students with a special focus on supporting minorities and women in STEM
Global Code of Business Conduct & Ethics
• Diverse communities: Supporting organizations that are aligned with our Diversity and Inclusion efforts and Global Complaint Reporting Policy
the intent of our Employee Circles (Multicultural, Pride, Veterans and Gender Diversity)
GRI 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics
GRI 102-13 Membership of associations Waters maintains an external email address as a mechanism for suppliers and third parties to raise concerns.
We are members of several associations, some of which are listed below: For more information, see 2021 Proxy, page 20 (“How to Communicate With Us”).
• Analytical, Life Sciences & Diagnostics Association (ALDA)
• American Society for Mass Spectrometry (ASMS) Governance
• Associated Industries of Massachusetts
• Boston College Center for Corporate Citizenship GRI 102-18 Governance structure
We believe sound principles of corporate governance are essential to protecting Waters’ reputation, assets,
• CDP Climate respondent
investor confidence, customer loyalty and sustainability. For more information, see 2021 Proxy, pages 11-20
• Massachusetts Biotechnology Council
(“Corporate Governance”).
• Massachusetts High Tech Council
• New England Council GRI 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics
Our Director of Sustainability is responsible for day-to-day management and execution of our
sustainability programs.
Strategy
GRI 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics
Materiality Assessment, GRI 102-29
GRI 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker
Approach to stakeholder engagement, GRI 102-43
A message from Udit Batra, page 5
2020 Annual Report, CEO Letter
Waters Sustainability Report 2021
About Our commitment Innovations that change GRI/SASB
22
us to sustainability the world for the better disclosures
GRI 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees GRI 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body
The Board of Directors (the “Board”) and its various committees are charged with ensuring that our business is The Board is comprised of experts in their fields, with the Audit Committee comprised entirely of directors
conducted and managed in a responsible manner. As of June 30, 2021, the Board consisted of nine members designated “financial experts” pursuant to U.S. securities laws and listing requirements. Six of our current Directors
whose primary responsibility is to protect the long-term interests of Waters shareholders. We have added five have served as a chief executive officer, six have had careers in industries relevant to our business, six are experts
new independent directors since 2017, and all but one of our directors are considered independent under the in finance and capital allocation, four have backgrounds in science and technology and one has served as a chief
applicable listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange and the company’s independence criteria. In March financial officer. As a public company, we are committed to full and prompt public disclosure, including in our
2020, Waters separated the roles of President and Chief Executive Officer and the Chairman of the Board, with proxy statement and other filings, to highlight some of our sustainability efforts as well as the diverse makeup of
the President and CEO remaining a board member. The Board believes that this structure strikes an appropriate our Board. Waters employees have access to the knowledge and resources they need to conduct business in
balance between strong leadership and independent oversight. Diverse perspectives are crucial to the Board’s an ethical manner. We provide timely financial information in our quarterly earnings calls, which is also available
ability to effectively oversee the strategic direction of the company. Current members come from a wide range of on our website and through press releases. For more information, see 2021 Proxy, pages 4-9 (“Director Skills,
scientific, technical, financial and operational backgrounds. Experience, and Background”).
GRI 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body GRI 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance
Dr. Flemming Ornskov, M.D., M.P.H. assumed the role of Chairman of the Board in March 2020. The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee conducts an annual evaluation of the Board and each of
its committees. It is the intention of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee to continue to engage
GRI 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body in this process annually. For additional information, see 2021 Proxy, page 12 (“How We Are Evaluated”).
The entire Board is elected annually, each to hold office until his or her successor is elected and qualified or
until his or her earlier resignation, death or removal. For more information, see 2021 Proxy, page 11 (“How we are GRI 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impacts
selected and elected”).
Materiality Assessment
Our mission to Deliver Benefit to our customers, employees, shareholders, and society at every opportunity is
GRI 102-25 Conflicts of interest
the guiding force behind our decisions and actions. With that in mind, we undertook a comprehensive materiality
Global Code of Business Conduct & Ethics, page 5 (English version)
assessment in 2018 to identify the environmental, social, and governance topics that are most important to
2021 Proxy, pages 13-14 (“Related Party Transactions Policy”)
our organization and our stakeholders. The results informed our sustainability strategy and helped define our
sustainability goals.
GRI 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy
Over more than 60 years in business, Waters has established a reputation for maintaining the highest standard
of integrity. Our commitment to ethical business practices reinforces our company purpose to Deliver Benefit
to our customers, employees, shareholders and society at every opportunity. Adherence to sound governance
principles is also essential to protecting our reputation, our assets, investor confidence and customer loyalty.
Waters attracts a significant percentage of the market’s long-term, ESG-focused investors. Good governance
starts at the top, where our Board and its committees are charged with ensuring that Waters’ business is
conducted in an ethical and responsible manner. For more information, see 2021 Proxy, page 15 (“Board’s
Role in Risk Oversight Generally”).
Waters Sustainability Report 2021
About Our commitment Innovations that change GRI/SASB
23
us to sustainability the world for the better disclosures
GRI 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics
Waters Material Topics
Materiality Assessment, GRI 102-29
Strategic opportunity Organizational priority Operational imperative Approach to stakeholder engagement, GRI 102-43
Human health, safety, and
Innovation and thought leadership Financial performance GRI 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting
well-being
Our CEO and executive team review and provide input to the company’s Sustainability Report prior to its
publication.
Environmental impact of products Digital transformation Diversity and fair treatment
Energy and greenhouse gas GRI 102-33 Communicating critical concerns
Talent recruitment and development Sustainable supply chain
(GHG) emissions As a mechanism for suppliers, third parties and other stakeholders to raise concerns, Waters maintains email
inboxes (ethics@waters.com and internal_audit@waters.com) for questions. Our internal audit function has a
Culture and engagement Business continuity planning Water and waste management
direct reporting line to the Board. For more information, see 2021 Proxy, page 20 (“How to Communicate With Us”).
Approach to stakeholder engagement, GRI 102-43 GRI 102-35 Remuneration policies
There are three primary elements of our executive compensation program: base salary, annual incentive awards
GRI 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes (AIP), and Long-Term Incentive (LTI) awards. For more information, see 2021 Proxy, pages 34-36 (“Elements of
At Waters, an effective risk culture is maintained through a framework where the business unit owns the risk. This Executive Compensation”).
encourages accountability and active participation from the organization’s wide variety of employees. In the annual
performance review process, employees are encouraged to evaluate their own efforts over the corresponding The Company has adopted a Recoupment Policy for cash incentive awards paid to current or former named
year and are given the same framework that their manager uses to evaluate their performance. This framework executive officers under the Company’s Annual Incentive Plan (AIP). Under this policy, if any executive officer
includes risk management. In the self-assessment, employees write down the outcomes, results achieved, impact engaged in misconduct that resulted in a restatement of financial results, the Board or an authorized committee,
on business/Team towards the goals and how they demonstrated Employee Success Model behaviors. This is such as the Compensation Committee, if it is determined appropriate, could seek reimbursement of the portion of
also an opportunity to provide feedback to managers about challenges that the employee has faced and how the AIP awards impacted by the event. For more information, see 2021 Proxy, page 33 (“Recoupment Policy”).
department or team might work better moving forward. Since this occurs annually, it is an ongoing process that is
designed to foster incremental improvement as well as long-term alignment. It also seeks to ensure accountability, The Company has adopted an anti-hedging policy that is incorporated as part of Waters’ insider trading policy and
with the understanding that managers of each business unit are responsible for risk within their corresponding prohibits impacted individuals from purchasing financial instruments, including prepaid variable forward contracts,
area. In addition, Waters has a centralized risk management framework that is used to review overall procedures, equity swaps, collars or units of exchange funds that are designed to hedge or offset any decrease in market value
evaluate the organization at a higher level, and serves to provide broader oversight of each department. This of equity securities of the Company. For more information, see 2021 Proxy, page 14 (“Policy Against Hedging”).
framework is managed by our Chief Compliance Officer, VP Internal Audit has a reporting line to our Board’s Audit
Committee. For more information, see 2021 Proxy, page 15 (“Risk Oversight”). GRI 102-36 Process for determining remuneration
Beginning in 2019, the Compensation Committee conducted a comprehensive review of our current incentive
programs (both the AIP and the LTI program), which led to changes in the timing of the executive review process,
as well as core program design changes, for 2020. For more information, see 2021 Proxy, pages 27-54 (“2020
Executive Compensation Program”).
Waters Sustainability Report 2021
About Our commitment Innovations that change GRI/SASB
24
us to sustainability the world for the better disclosures
GRI 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration Our research included a peer review of customers, key suppliers, and industry influencers as well as key financial
The Company engaged with shareholders in 2020 to discuss, among other topics, executive compensation and sustainability reports, risk assessments, shareholder inquiries and resolutions, investor and reputational
program design. For more information, see 2021 Proxy, page 27 (“Shareholder Engagement and Changes in the indices, industry association reports, sustainability reporting frameworks, and supplier surveys. We also
2020 Pay Program”) and page 31 (“Shareholder Outreach Program”). interviewed a broad spectrum of senior leaders and other stakeholders, including customers, investors and
philanthropic partners, and distributed a company-wide survey.
GRI 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio
The estimated ratio of the annual total compensation of our CEO to the median of the annual total compensation Material topics were prioritized based on respective stakeholder and business importance, validated with Waters
of all other employees in 2020 was approximately 106-to-1. For more information, see 2021 Proxy, pages 54-55 executive committee members and grouped under three categories: Strategic Opportunity, Organizational Priority,
(“CEO Pay Ratio Disclosure”). and Operational Imperative. We will continue to engage with stakeholders and industry peers to update our
materiality assessment and ensure the continued relevance and alignment of our focus areas and sustainability
strategy. To ensure that our strategy is aligned with industry best practices as well as an independent point of view,
Stakeholder engagement
we engaged independent consultants to assist with the assessment and validate our findings. We currently plan
to conduct our next materiality assessment in the fourth quarter 2021. For the list of material topics, see Materiality
Assessment, GRI 102-29.
GRI 102-40 List of stakeholder groups
As part of our ongoing materiality assessment, we engage with a broad spectrum of senior leaders and other
stakeholders, including customers, investors and philanthropic partners, and distribute a company-wide survey. GRI 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised
Materiality Assessment, GRI 102-29
GRI 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements
2020 10-K, pages 15-24 (“Risk Factors”)
The Company’s employees are not unionized or affiliated with any internal or external labor organizations. For
more information, see 2020 10-K, page 11 (“Human Capital”).
GRI 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders
Materiality Assessment, GRI 102-29
GRI 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement
Our multi-step materiality process in 2018 included internal research to identify key material topics, stakeholder
engagement and feedback, and development of a methodology to prioritize issues and opportunities. To ensure
that our strategy was aligned with industry best practices as well as an independent point of view, we engaged
independent consultants to assist with the assessment and validate our findings.
Waters Sustainability Report 2021
About Our commitment Innovations that change GRI/SASB
25
us to sustainability the world for the better disclosures
GRI 102-47 List of material topics
Stakeholder Priority topics raised in materiality assessment
Materiality Assessment, GRI 102-29
• Environment: Emissions; waste; hazardous materials handling; sustainable products;
sustainable supply chain
GRI 102-48 Restatements of information
• Social: Fair workplace; health and safety; human capital management and employee Our total energy consumption data has changed from previous reporting years and was restated due to a
Customers
development; human rights miscalculation at one facility.
• Economic and Governance: Innovation; product quality; enterprise resilience and risk
GRI 102-49 Changes in reporting
management; ethical behavior; legal compliance
None
• Environmental: Waste; recycling; sustainable products; sustainable supply chain
• Social: Talent recruitment and retention; human capital management and employee GRI 102-50 Reporting period
Employees development; health and safety This report includes key data covering the Fiscal Year ending December 31, 2020, with some highlights from early
2021.
• Economic and Governance: Innovation, R&D investment; financial performance; thought
leadership; ethical behavior, legal compliance
GRI 102-51 Date of most recent report
• Environmental: ESG goal setting, reporting, and performance December 22, 2020
• Social: Supply chain sub-tier visibility; human rights
Shareholders
GRI 102-52 Reporting cycle
• Economic and Governance: Board independence; integration of ESG into business
Annual
operations; ethical behavior; legal compliance
Philanthropic • Economic and Governance: Support for common causes; financial commitment; ethical GRI 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report
Partners behavior; legal compliance
Andrew Pastor, Director of Sustainability (andrew_pastor@waters.com) and sustainability@waters.com
GRI 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards
Reporting practice Core level
GRI 102-55 GRI content index
GRI 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements
GRI Index, page 19
The company has two operating segments: Waters and TA Instruments. For further information, please refer to the
consolidated financial statements beginning on page 56 of our 2020 10-K.
GRI 102-56 External assurance
We do not currently have any external assurance on our environmental or social reporting.
GRI 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries
Materiality Assessment, GRI 102-29
Waters Sustainability Report 2021
About Our commitment Innovations that change GRI/SASB
26
us to sustainability the world for the better disclosures
Economic
Economic performance GRI 201-4 Financial assistance received from government
Waters received no material financial assistance from government agencies in 2020. In March 2020, the U.S. federal
government enacted the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security Act (the “CARES Act”). The CARES Act
GRI 201 Management approach
is an emergency economic stimulus package in response to the COVID-19 outbreak which, among other things,
Waters operates with a fundamental underlying purpose: to advance the science that enables our customers to
contains numerous income tax provisions. The CARES Act does not have a material impact on the Company’s
enhance human health and well-being. For more than 60 years, we have pioneered analytical workflow solutions
consolidated financial statements or related disclosures. For more information, see our 2020 10-K, page 86.
involving liquid chromatography, mass spectrometry, thermal analysis, rheometry and calorimetry innovations
serving the life, materials, clinical, food and environmental sciences.
Indirect economic impacts
We create value for our shareholders through the design, manufacture, sales and service of analytical
instrumentation systems and support products. These include chromatography columns, laboratory consumables,
GRI 203 Management approach
analytical reagents and standards, and advanced software products that interface with both our instruments and
Just as we are committed to producing products that provide our customers and their industries with dependably
those of other manufacturers.
accurate and precise analyses, we work to ensure that we are a trustworthy business partner that operates all
facets of our business with the highest levels of ethics and accountability.
We create business advantage for laboratory organizations through practical and sustainable scientific innovation,
leveraging our scientific expertise and integrated product portfolio to help our customers innovate, make new
discoveries, optimize their lab operations and ensure regulatory compliance. GRI 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported
Our mass spectrometry center of excellence in Wilmslow, UK, completed in 2014 was constructed to meet the
BREEAM “Very Good” standard and includes built-in sustainable components such as rainwater harvesting
GRI 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed
tanks, solar panels and heat recovery systems. In Taunton, MA, our precision chemistry site is responsible for bulk
2020 Annual Report: CEO letter and 10-K, page 30 (“Selected Financial Data”)
synthesis of chromatographic media, which is critical to sample analysis for pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical,
materials, food, clinical and biomedical research applications. In 2018, Waters announced a $215 million
GRI 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change
commitment over six years to build and equip a state-of-the-art facility that will expand the chemistry operation to
2020 10-K, page 13 (“Environmental Matters and Climate Change”) and pages 15-24 (“Risk Factors”)
support rising global demand, as well as advancement in chemistry technology innovation. Last year, we continued
2020 CDP Climate response
construction that incorporates elements of Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED®) to optimize
efficiency and achieve base level certification.
GRI 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans
2020 10-K, pages 30, 34, 40, 43, 48, 69, 92-99
Waters Sustainability Report 2021
About Our commitment Innovations that change GRI/SASB
27
us to sustainability the world for the better disclosures
Anti-corruption
GRI 205 Management approach
Waters (including our subsidiaries and affiliates) is committed to the highest standards of integrity and ethical
business conduct. Our Global Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Compliance Policy prohibits any conduct that
amounts to requesting, accepting, giving or offering anything of value to or from anyone to reward improper
performance or to obtain unfair business advantage. All Waters parties and third-party business partners are
expected to conduct their activities in full compliance with all applicable anti-corruption and bribery laws, including
without limitation: U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”), the UK Bribery Act (“UKBA”), the Anti-Unfair
Competition Law of the PRC (“AUCL”), and any other anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws that are in effect in the
countries in which the Company does business. All Waters employees receive training on this policy.
GRI 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption
No Company party or third-party business partners shall make, offer to make, or promise to make payments,
or give anything of value, directly or indirectly, to any third party, including without limitation any government
official, to assist the Company in obtaining or retaining an improper business advantage. This would include
bribes, kickbacks and soft dollar practices. For more information, see our Global Anti-Bribery & Anti-Corruption
Compliance Policy.
GRI 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures
Waters expressly prohibits any conduct that amounts to requesting, accepting, giving or offering anything of
value to or from anyone to reward improper performance or obtain an unfair business advantage. Waters has
clear channels of communication internally to discuss matters that fall under the code of conduct and compliance
more generally. Employees may consult with their supervisor, legal or compliance at any time to discuss concerns
or report any violations. Similarly, employees may ask questions relating to the policy in general by emailing
ethics@waters.com. For more information, see our Global Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Compliance Policy.
GRI 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken
Waters does not publicly discuss issues relating to anti-bribery and anti-corruption.
Waters Sustainability Report 2021
About Our commitment Innovations that change GRI/SASB
28
us to sustainability the world for the better disclosures
Environmental
Energy GRI 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization
In 2020, we began measuring certain Scope 3 emissions, including waste generated in operations, employee
commutes, business travel and fuel and energy-related activities not included in Scope 1 and 2. These activities,
GRI 302 Management approach
detailed under GRI 305-3, were calculated in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol and are
Waters’ manufacturing processes involve chemical synthesis, precision machining, surface finishing and final
included in our 2020 CDP Climate response.
assembly activities, carried out in close coordination with scientists and engineers. Conducting these activities in-
house contributes to our products’ quality, capability and performance, and are an important factor in the success
In future years, we intend to expand our Scope 3 measurement and reporting activities.
of our business. They are, however, energy-intensive activities and require both a substantial and specialized
manufacturing footprint. We measure and monitor energy use on a per-facility basis to identify our largest impacts,
GRI 302-3 Energy intensity
and in turn, to identify opportunities to reduce our energy consumption.
Our energy intensity (per $1M in revenue) has declined by 13 percent since 2016. This is attributable to increases in
the energy efficiency of our facilities and manufacturing processes and to facilities consolidation. The six percent
GRI 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization*
year-over-year decrease is due to the above factors, as well as to many of our office workers being offsite for the
Energy sources 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 majority of the year due to the COVID-19 pandemic. For more information, see our 2020 CDP Climate response.
Heating oil 1,967 1,550 0 20 0
Stationary combustion
GRI 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption
(MwH) Natural gas 29,659 31,139 33,305 33,754 29,771
Our total energy consumption in 2020 was approximately 7.75 percent lower than in 2019. The year-over-year
Diesel backup 18 42 34 40 141 decline in energy consumption for 2020 was due in part to lower population density in our facilities due to the
COVID-19 pandemic.
Vehicle fuels(MwH) Diesel 3,359 4,061 3,338 3,261 2,260
Gasoline 21,000 20,051 21,583 19,499 13,887
GRI 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services
District heating 56 41 31 0 0 Our new Premier, Arc Premier and MaxPeak products continue to advance the state of the art in liquid
chromatography, allowing our customers to process smaller samples, with less solvent, decrease time-to-result,
Electricity 55,699 55,497 56,828 58,518 58,815
streamline method development, improve method reproducibility and reduce activities such as system and
Total Energy consumption 111,758 112,381 115,119 115,092 104,733 column passivation. As previously reported, our ACQUITY UPLC instruments use approximately 80 percent less
solvent and 35 percent less electricity on a per-sample basis than traditional HPLC instruments.
Revenue (millions USD) 2,167 2,309 2,420 2,407 2,365
Energy/Revenue (MwH/$mm) 51.6 48.7 47.6 47.8 44.3
* Energy use and GHG emissions data were revised in March 2023 to reflect corrected reporting for our Taunton facility from 2016-20. Our total energy consumption
for those years is approximately 13% higher than originally reported, and our total Scope 1+2 GHG emissions are approximately 10% higher than originally reported.
For more information, please see our 2020 CDP Climate response.
We identified the historical reporting error as part of our annual internal review process, in consultation with third-party consultants
Waters Sustainability Report 2021
About Our commitment Innovations that change GRI/SASB
29
us to sustainability the world for the better disclosures
Water Water Intensity (Cubic Meters)
15.4
2020
48.1
GRI-303 Management Approach
Except for our facilities in Milford and Taunton, MA, which carry out water-intensive manufacturing processes, our 2019 21.1
66.1
use of water is primarily driven by general facilities use (e.g., restrooms, foodservice and landscaping), which is
19.9
partly a function of headcount. We are committed to addressing water use throughout our operations and have 2018 59.3
focused our efforts on six main production sites where water use is most prevalent. We will continue to seek water
20.6
2017
management efficiencies as we work towards our goal of reducing our water use intensity. 62.3
20.2
2016
64.2
GRI 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource
Water used by the company is primarily drawn from municipal water sources. Our facilities in India and Malaysia, Per Employee Per $M Revenue
however, use groundwater and collected rainwater.
Many of our employees were working remotely for much of the year due to the COVID-19 pandemic, which
GRI 303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts
contributed to the year-over-year decline in water use intensity in 2020. In addition, we increased our use of
Our new precision chemistry manufacturing facility in Taunton, MA uses gray water for restrooms. We are working
touchless low-flow plumbing fixtures in 2020, which supported our COVID-19 response.
to reduce our water use intensity over time throughout our facilities.
GRI 303-3 Water Withdrawal Emissions
GRI 303-4 Water Discharge
GRI 305 Management approach*
Our goal of a 35 percent reduction in Scope 1 and 2 GHG was chosen in consideration of science-based targets
GRI 303-5 Water Consumption
(SBTs) intended to contribute to limiting global temperature rise, consistent with a 2°C climate change goal as
specified in the Paris Agreement. We continue to seek initiatives to reduce our emissions and do our part to reduce
Water Use (Cubic Meters)
the overall rise in global temperature. Waters has been participating in the CDP Climate survey since 2011.
737 69,460 43,556
2020 113,753
Our largest manufacturing facilities account for approximately 30 percent of our energy consumption, and as we
1,153 92,374 65,576
2019 159,108 increase our use of renewable energy, we are focusing on these facilities. To that end, Waters purchases renewable
286 79,194 63,919 and low-carbon energy at our facilities in Wexford, Ireland, Wilmslow, England, and Solihull, England. We also
2018 143,399
utilize on-site solar power at TA Instruments’ facility in Huellhorst, Germany. In some of the areas where we
1,560 73,753 68,598 operate, the local electricity grid uses renewable power to varying degrees, which we account for in accordance
2017 143,911
with CDP guidance and the GHG Protocol. In total, renewable and low-carbon energy accounted for 27 percent
1,734 73,025 64,352
2016 139,111 of our total electricity usage in 2020.
Rainwater Muni Water Muni Sewerage * Energy use and GHG emissions data were revised in March 2023 to reflect corrected reporting for our Taunton facility from 2016-20. Our total energy consumption
for those years is approximately 13% higher than originally reported, and our total Scope 1+2 GHG emissions are approximately 10% higher than originally reported
We identified the historical reporting error as part of our annual internal review process, in consultation with third-party consultants.
Waters Sustainability Report 2021
About Our commitment Innovations that change GRI/SASB
30
us to sustainability the world for the better disclosures
GRI 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions GRI 305-4 GHG emissions intensity
Scope 1 and 2 GHG Intensity (MT CO e)*
GRI 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 2
3.3
2020
Scope 1 and 2 GHG Emissions (MT CO e x1,000)* 10.3
2
11.0 13.4 2019 3.5
2020 24.4 10.9
13.4 12.9 2018 3.7
2019 26.3 11.0
14.3 12.4 2017 3.8
2018 26.7 11.5
13.2 13.3 2016 3.9
2017 26.5 12.6
12.8 14.4
Per Employee Per $M Revenue
2016 27.2
Scope 1 Scope 2 For more information, please see our 2020 CDP Climate response.
For more information, please see our 2020 CDP Climate response. GRI 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions
We are continuing to reduce our emissions, having reduced combined Scope 1 and 2 by 9.7 percent since the
GRI 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions baseline set in 2016. Moving forward, we intend to increase the proportion of energy we source from renewable
The following Scope 3 GHG emissions data for FY 2020 was reported to CDP. We are working to expand this and lower-carbon sources, beginning with our largest manufacturing facilities. In addition, we expect to make
reporting for future years. improvements to the fuel efficiency of our owned and leased vehicle fleets over time. We have begun measuring
our Scope 3 GHG emissions and will look to expand these efforts in the future. For more information, see our 2020
CDP Climate response.
Emission Type MT CO e
2
Waste Generated in Operations 14 GRI 305-6 Emissions of Ozone-Depleting Substances (ODS)
Employee Commuting 12,750 Except in environmental reference standards, Waters’ products and manufacturing operations do not utilize Ozone
Depleting Substances as classified under the Montreal Protocol. A small quantity of R-22 (HCFC-22) refrigerant
Business Travel 2,990
is used for climate control at our facility Bangalore, India and for a small number of chillers at our facility in New
Fuel-and-Energy Related Activities (Not Included in Scope 1 or 2) 6,442 Castle, DE.
TOTAL 22,196
Waste
For more information, please see our 2020 CDP Climate response.
* Energy use and GHG emissions data were revised in March 2023 to reflect corrected reporting for our Taunton facility from 2016-20. Our total energy consumption GRI 306 Management approach
for those years is approximately 13% higher than originally reported, and our total Scope 1+2 GHG emissions are approximately 10% higher than originally reported.
Upholding our commitment to environmental responsibility includes monitoring how much waste we create and
We identified the historical reporting error as part of our annual internal review process, in consultation with third-party consultants.
how we dispose of materials used in our manufacturing processes. At our major sites, we are working to decrease
Waters Sustainability Report 2021
About Our commitment Innovations that change GRI/SASB
31
us to sustainability the world for the better disclosures
waste sent to landfills and to increase the proportion of waste being diverted to recycling and incineration The year-over-year decline in waste generation and recycling in 2020 is partly due to reduced population density
(typically waste-to-energy). We are aware that our extended environmental footprint includes packaging waste and in many of our facilities as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic.
waste generated through the use of our instruments in customer laboratories, and we are taking steps to reduce
these impacts over time. GRI 306-2 Management of significant waste-related impacts
2020 saw tightening restrictions on imported waste bound for recycling, which has increased the complexity of
GRI 306-1 Waste generation and significant waste-related impacts waste disposal on a global basis. In addition, the availability of waste-to-energy facilities in Massachusetts (where
we have our largest facilities footprint) has increased the complexity of solid waste disposal. Looking ahead, Waters
GRI 306-3 Waste generated
will monitor these issues and continue our efforts to reduce the amount of waste generated, aware that recycling
and waste-to-energy options may become more limited over time.
GRI 306-4 Waste diverted from disposal
GRI 306-5 Waste directed to disposal We continue our focus on improving the environmental impact of our product packaging. We are implementing
design changes to our highest-volume product packaging solutions that will reduce shipping size and weight and
Waste (MT)
that will phase out the use of non-recyclable materials. We expect that, on an annual basis, the changes made to
41 343 167 date will eliminate approximately 60,000 kg of packaging materials and 485 metric tons of CO emissions from our
2020 551 2
extended value chain.
54 392 221
2019 667
189 298 176 Environmental compliance
2018 663
142 321 206
2017 669
GRI 307 Management approach
106 368 113 Waters maintains an ISO 14001 certified Environmental Management System (EMS) at our headquarters and
2016 587
largest global manufacturing facility in Milford, MA. The EMS attests to our commitment to being good stewards
Landfill Incineration Recycling of the communities where we operate and actively protecting the environment by pursuing pollution prevention,
waste reduction and the conservation of natural resources throughout our operations. We will continue to prioritize
Waste Intensity (MT)
environmental management by expanding our EMS to our largest manufacturing sites.
0.07
2020
0.23
GRI 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations
2019 0.09 None
0.28
0.09
2018
0.27
0.10
2017
0.29
0.09
2016
0.27
Per Employee Per $M
Waters Sustainability Report 2021
About Our commitment Innovations that change GRI/SASB
32
us to sustainability the world for the better disclosures
Social
Employment Waters provides its employees a wide array of benefits. Our Total Rewards portfolio, including Compensation,
Recognition, Benefits and Work-life Effectiveness, is intended to help our employees achieve success at work and
beyond, to realize the goals of a rewarding career, a healthy life and a bright future. See a list of benefits and total
GRI 401 Management approach
rewards on our Benefits and Total Rewards webpage (note: it is not a comprehensive list and is only meant to
Our people create the Waters’ difference. We consider our ability to attract and retain talent one of the key success
serve as a general guide).
factors of business and a critical indicator of the impact of our HR programs and initiatives. Our goals are to attract
and retain the talented employees who are essential to the continued success of the company and, in hiring, to
achieve a balance between global consistency and local flexibility.
Occupational health and safety
GRI 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover
GRI 403 Management approach
Global Voluntary Turnover Rate New Hires Waters is committed to maintaining a culture in which the health, safety, and well-being of all our employees is an
integral part of our business. We regard the Duty of Care as more than operational safety; rather, it is workforce
2020 7.3% 2020 661
risk management. Our goal is to create and maintain an environment of zero harm for our employees. This is
2019 7.2% 2019 834
articulated in our Health, Safety and Environmental Policy.
2018 6.8% 2018 789
2017 5.9% 2017 736 736 GRI 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system
Waters adheres to all general safety training protocols, including requiring safety training for employees. Through
online and in-person training programs, we foster a safe workplace and ensure that all employees are empowered
GRI 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or
to prevent accidents and injuries. Employees who are exposed to workplace hazards such as compressed
part-time employees
gases, biological substances, and hazardous materials also receive specialized safety training in accordance with
Waters provides employees with a compensation structure that is market focused and performance based.
regulatory requirements.
In 2019, we launched a multi-year review of our Total Rewards programs, including Compensation, Benefits,
Recognition, and Work-life Effectiveness. In 2020, we introduced changes to our Annual Incentive Plan (AIP)
We closely monitor safety-related data measures, including Total Recordable Incident Rate, Lost Time Incident
and Long-Term Incentive Program to strengthen our commitment to a performance-oriented culture. Specifically,
Rate, and Number of Lost Time Cases, as key indicators in our effort to achieve a zero-accident workplace. Since
our compensation strategy aims to align performance-based total compensation with our business strategy
2019, Waters has utilized Health, Safety and Environmental (HSE) data management software to improve the
and establish and maintain pay levels based on evaluation of jobs, work performance and compensation paid
timeliness, accuracy, and completeness of HSE data on a global basis. Use of the software helps standardize best
elsewhere in the marketplace.
practices across the enterprise and facilitates development and tracking of leading indicators.
During the pandemic, we invested in maintaining safe work environments for our employees. See Our COVID-19
Response, page 6 of this report, for more information.
Waters Sustainability Report 2021
About Our commitment Innovations that change GRI/SASB
33
us to sustainability the world for the better disclosures
GRI 403-9 Work-related injuries* GRI 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs
Waters invests in various programs, digital platforms and workshops that build professional and technical skills.
Total Recordable Incident Rate Lost Time Incident Rate We have been working to enhance our digital learning opportunities and offer a global learning platform to our
employees, iLearn. iLearn features a curated collection of videos, podcasts, and digital and audio books that
2020 0.4 2020 0.2
supports Waters employees in self-led professional development with tools on leadership, agility, and other
2019 0.9 2019 0.5
technical and business skills. Available in six languages plus English, iLearn can be accessed anywhere, anytime,
2018 1.2 2018 0.4 on any computer or mobile device. In 2020, more than 80 percent of our employees took advantage of the iLearn
2017 1.4 2017 0.7 system, and approximately two thirds of our workforce started or completed training on unconscious bias.
2016 1.1 2016 0.5
GRI 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews
Employees Receiving Performance Reviews
Lost Time Cases
2020 15 4%
2019 15
2018 13
96%
2017 21
2016 15
* 2016-19 data are U.S. only.
Training and education Yes No
GRI 404 Management approach
At Waters, growth and development are all about continuous learning, the evolution of oneself, and the constant
pursuit of knowledge that makes us better and better. We work to communicate and define the key behaviors and
attributes that drive personal and organizational success and help develop all our employees as leaders. A dual
focus on the “how” as well as the “what” serves as the foundation of all our talent activities, including acquisition,
development, performance evaluation, and rewards and recognition.
Waters Sustainability Report 2021
About Our commitment Innovations that change GRI/SASB
34
us to sustainability the world for the better disclosures
Diversity and equal opportunity GRI 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees
Global Hires by Gender Global Workforce by Gender
GRI 405 Management approach
We believe that respect and inclusion are core tenets of organizational success and that fostering a sense of
inclusivity allows our employees to maximize their performance contribution to our business. We believe that we
can only reach true equality when we allow people to contribute their talents without limitation. We promote an
equality mindset that seeks the best ideas regardless of where they come from. Empowering employees to pursue 31%
37%
their full potential without limitation leads to new ideas, innovation, and ultimately better business results. We
celebrate difference and diversity in our Employee Circles, which focus on Gender, Multicultural, Veterans, and
63% 69%
Pride employees and allies. Our Employee Circles and their members serve as ambassadors and change agents,
promoting diversity and inclusion throughout the company. All employees are encouraged to participate in these
Circles at the local and global levels.
In addition to our Employee Circles, our Diversity & Inclusion (D&I) Council of Leaders sponsors events that
Men Women Men Women
foster a culture of inclusion. While our (D&I) Council held many events and conversations throughout the year,
our celebration of International Women’s Day (IWD) was a highlight. Waters invited employees to share video
testimonials honoring “We Are #EachForEqual” in addition to the five in-person IWD events for employees to
engage in dialog across some of our largest sites. We have also rolled out training to all employees to support an US Workforce by Race Women in Leadership
inclusive culture that values diverse perspectives. (Senior Director and Above)
1%
3%
Waters has focused on expanding diversity in our recruitment processes. In 2020, we implemented the Diverse 2016 18%
Slate Recruiting initiative. This requires that all positions have at least two diverse candidates that are interviewed. 5% 2017 22%
We have developed hiring partnerships with diversity recruiting vendors aligned to our Employee Circles including
2018 26%
10%
Hire Heroes, PowerToFly, National Society of Black Engineers, and Out in Tech. In addition, Waters participated
81% 2019 28%
in the Human Rights Campaign Corporate Equality Index for the first time in 2020, earning a 95 percent score on
benefit and HR policy parity in support of our LGBTQ+ colleagues’ rights. 2020 31%
White Asian Hispanic/Latinx
Black or African American
Two or More Races
Waters Sustainability Report 2021
About Our commitment Innovations that change GRI/SASB
35
us to sustainability the world for the better disclosures
Non-discrimination GRI 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor
To assess the potential social risks of our suppliers, we review data including labor and wage-related issues, risks
for corruption and child labor, political unrest, and any past issues that were made public or reported in media. We
GRI 406 Management approach
assess the relative criticality of sole source providers, and we also consider a supplier’s industry and geographic
We are firmly committed to providing equal opportunity in all aspects of employment and will not tolerate any
location, recognizing that certain issues are more prevalent in different parts of the world. This approach helps
illegal discrimination or harassment of any kind. Relationships with colleagues and business relationships with
us identify the location and severity of social risks. A total risk score is assigned to each key supplier based on
competitors, suppliers, and customers always must be conducted free of any discrimination, including based on
the social risk score, environmental risk score, and the total annual spend with the supplier. Scoring enables us to
race, color, creed, religion, gender identity or expression, age, sex, sexual orientation, national origin, genetics,
focus extra scrutiny on key, high-risk suppliers, and actively engage with them to improve deficiencies.
marital status, veteran status, handicap, or disability, or any other characteristic protected by law. Examples of
illegal discrimination or harassment include derogatory comments based on any of the preceding characteristics
For more information, see our Statement on UK Modern Slavery Act, Statement on Conflict Minerals, and
and unwelcome sexual advances. For more information, see our Global Code of Business Conduct & Ethics.
SEC filing on Conflict Minerals.
Freedom of association and collective bargaining
Local Communities
GRI 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and collective
GRI 413 Management approach
bargaining may be at risk
Waters has a long history of supporting charitable organizations around the globe, and we continuously strive to
Waters employees are not unionized or affiliated with any internal or external labor organization.
increase our impact on the communities where we live and serve. We have refined our charitable focus to align
more closely with our three philanthropic pillars: improving health and well-being, supporting STEM education,
and supporting organizations that are aligned with our diversity and inclusion efforts.
Forced or compulsory labor
GRI 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs
GRI 409 Management approach
External initiatives, GRI 102-12
Waters values fair, reliable business relationships with suppliers and partners, and encourages those with whom
we do business to share in our vision of responsible and ethical business practices. We expect our suppliers to
adhere to all applicable laws, rules, and regulations of the countries in which they operate. It is critical that our Public policy
suppliers uphold the human rights of workers and treat them with dignity and respect while ensuring a safe and
healthy working environment.
GRI 415-1 Political contributions
Waters does not contribute to political campaigns or political action committees. Waters has taken positions in
We work with our suppliers to ensure that local laws regarding wages, working conditions, and working hours
industry debates and associations that are consistent with our business goals, namely concerning issues in the
are observed, and to ensure that child or forced labor is not used in the manufacturing of our products or in the
analytical instrumentation industry, including certification boards and standard setting organizations.
components they contain. Waters reserves the right to discontinue business relationships with suppliers that fail to
operate in a legal, responsible, and ethical manner.
Waters Sustainability Report 2021
About Our commitment Innovations that change GRI/SASB
36
us to sustainability the world for the better disclosures
Customer health and safety
GRI 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service categories
Waters’ chemistry products are documented in accordance with the Globally Harmonized System of Classification
and Labeling of Chemicals (GHS), with Safety Data Sheets (SDS) available that document each product’s physical
and chemical properties, exposure hazards, safe handling and transport, cleanup instructions and first aid,
toxicology, pollution risks, and disposal considerations. Safety Data Sheets are available in 14 languages, and can
be downloaded from a portal on the Waters website.
Waters instrumentation products go through a rigorous compliance engineering process to determine their
compliance with third party safety requirements and regulations relating to electrical safety and electromagnetic
interference. In addition, our instruments are designed and manufactured in compliance with regulations such
as the Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) and Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction
of Chemicals (REACH) directives, ensuring that their constituent materials do not pose harm to personnel
involved in their assembly, service, or decommissioning. Furthermore, Waters products used in clinical laboratory
environments comply with applicable requirements in their countries of sale with regards to In Vitro Diagnostic
(IVD) and Research-Use Only (RUO) products.
GRI 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services
None
Waters Sustainability Report 2021
About Our commitment Innovations that change GRI/SASB
37
us to sustainability the world for the better disclosures
SASB INDEX Product Safety
Medical Equipment
HC-MS-250a.1 Number of recalls issued, total units recalled
Waters issued no product recalls in 2020.
and Supplies
HC-MS-250a.2 List of products listed in the FDA’s MedWatch Safety Alerts for Human Medical
Products database
No Waters products were listed in the FDA’s MedWatch Safety Alerts for Human Medical Products Database
in 2020.
Table 1. Sustainability Disclosure Topics & Accounting Metrics HC-MS-250a.3 Number of fatalities related to products as reported in the FDA Manufacturer and User
Facility Device Experience
Affordability & Pricing No fatalities have occurred in relation to Waters products as reported to MAUDE.
HC-MS-250a.4 Number of FDA enforcement actions taken in response to violations of current Good
HC-MS-240a.1 Ratio of weighted average rate of net price increases (for all products) to the annual
Manufacturing Practices (cGMP), by type
increase in the U.S. Consumer Price Index
No FDA enforcement actions were taken against Waters in 2020 in response to violations of cGMP.
This metric is not relevant for Waters’ business model, and we do not consider it in our practices. However,
Waters follows a rigorous process and engages relevant stakeholders to set prices. Some of the criteria we use
when setting prices include, but are not limited to: product-specific attributes (e.g., lifecycle, innovation), value
Ethical Marketing
proposition of Waters’ portfolio, customer feedback and internal metrics (e.g., revenue and price realization).
HC-MS-270a.1 Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with false
HC-MS-240a.2 Description of how price information for each product is disclosed to customers
marketing claims
or to their agents
Waters had no monetary losses in 2020 due to legal proceedings associated with false marketing claims.
Waters sells products through multiple channels including direct sales to end customers, distributors, dealers and
e-commerce channels. For products for which pricing data is public, Waters ensures transparency and accuracy of
HC-MS-270a.2 Description of code of ethics governing promotion of off-label use of products
pricing through electronic quotes, e-catalog and Waters online ordering systems.
Waters’ Global Code of Business Conduct & Ethics and Global Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Compliance
Policy prohibit dishonest, unethical and illegal behavior in all territories where the company operates or sells
products. This prohibition also extends to customer-facing activities. Similarly, our Global Import and Export
policies mandate risk-based end-use checks to ensure that our products are used in the prescribed manner and
in compliance with applicable U.S. and market-country laws. All employees receive mandatory training about their
responsibilities in these areas.
Waters Sustainability Report 2021
About Our commitment Innovations that change GRI/SASB
38
us to sustainability the world for the better disclosures
Product Design & Lifecycle Management HC-MS-430a.2 Description of efforts to maintain traceability within the distribution chain
All Waters products have a unique part number. All instruments, and some spare parts carry barcoded labels
HC-MS-410a.1 Discussion of process to assess and manage environmental and human health indicating serial number, date of manufacture, country/plant of origin and compliance with applicable regulatory
considerations associated with chemicals in products, and meet demand for sustainable products requirements. Similar labeling exists for columns and chemistry products, which are typically lot-controlled, with
certificates of analysis available upon request. Waters also maintains device history records and keeps records of
Our products comply with applicable regulations regarding product use and safety, material composition,
which serialized products have been sold to which customers.
hazardous substance restrictions and hazard communications for the territories in which they are sold. Waters
continually monitors changes in the global regulatory landscape, and where necessary, updates product designs,
Our Global Trade Compliance team carries out due diligence to ensure that the distribution of Waters products
sourcing and manufacturing processes to ensure ongoing compliance. Through our supplier management
complies with U.S. import and export controls. Our Trade Compliance team also works with our Regulatory Affairs
practices and with our Supplier Quality Manual, we work to ensure that our suppliers are operating in support of
and distribution teams to ensure that In Vitro Diagnostic (IVD) products are sold to customers in territories where
these objectives. For more information, see HC-MS-430a.3.
appropriate registrations and licensing are in place.
HC-MS-410a.2 Total amount of products accepted for takeback and reused, recycled, or donated, broken
HC-MS-430a.3 Description of the management of risks associated with the use of critical materials
down by: (1) devices and equipment and (2) supplies
Waters’ Product Stewardship team manages these risks as noted below:
Waters does not currently track this data; we are working to develop this capability on an enterprise-wide basis.
• We conduct full assessment of all product designs, sources and manufacturing processes to ensure compliance
However, Waters takes back instruments as part of our FlexUp Technology Renewal program. We also provide our
with restricted substance regulations, such as the Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) Directive,
customers with local contacts that can support them with the responsible handling and destruction of end-of-life
Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH), Substances of Concern In
instruments. End-of-life instruments and components returned to Waters are dismantled and responsibly disposed
Products (SCIP) and the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA). We request the full material composition for
of by a third-party vendor. In some cases, products returned to Waters are refurbished, whereupon they are re-
every product component we purchase from a third party.
sold, donated, used as demo units or used in one of Waters’ in-house laboratories.
• Our Conflict Minerals program, conducted in accordance with OECD guidance, conducts an annual supply
chain survey, the results of which are filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in accordance
Supply Chain Management
with the Dodd-Frank requirements.
• We carry out substance volume tracking, registration, and reporting as required by the countries where we sell
HC-MS-430a.1 Percentage of (1) entity’s facilities and (2) Tier I suppliers’ facilities participating in third-party our products.
audit programs for manufacturing and product quality
• Hazard communications for our chemistry products are conducted in accordance with the requirements of the
Audits of Waters: Voluntary compliance audits, International Organization for Standardization (ISO) certifications, Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals (GHS).
Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI)
The Product Stewardship team works with our logistics and manufacturing organizations to ensure that
Audits of Suppliers: Waters conducts its own audits of critical suppliers. Quality engineers vary audit subject products are classified as Dangerous Goods as appropriate (based on the United Nations Recommendations
matter based on relevance to suppliers’ business. Suppliers must undergo audits to maintain their ISO on the Transport of Dangerous Goods), and that packaging, shipping and handling processes are carried out in
certifications. accordance with International Air Transport Association (IATA) requirements and local laws.
Waters Sustainability Report 2021
About Our commitment Innovations that change GRI/SASB
39
us to sustainability the world for the better disclosures
Business Ethics Forward-looking statements
This report contains “forward-looking” statements regarding future results and events, including statements
HC-MS-510a.1 Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with bribery regarding our sustainability targets, goals, commitments and programs and other business plans, initiatives and
or corruption objectives. For this purpose, any statements that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed forward-
looking. When used in this Report, the words “may,” “could,” “anticipate,” “target,” “plan,” “continue,” “goal,” “commit,”
Waters does not publicly discuss issues relating to anti-bribery and anti-corruption. Our Global Anti-Bribery &
“achieve,” “project,” “intend,” “estimate,” “believe,” “expect” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-
Anti-Corruption Compliance Policy complements our Global Code of Business Conduct & Ethics and Global
looking statements, although not all forward-looking statements contain such words. Forward-looking statements
Trade Compliance program, and we train all employees about their responsibilities in these areas.
are based on assumptions and assessments made by the Company’s management in light of their experience
and perceptions of historical trends, current conditions, expected future developments and other factors. Forward-
HC-MS-510a.2 Description of code of ethics governing interactions with health care professionals
looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and actual future results and events may differ
Our Global Anti-Bribery & Anti-Corruption Compliance Policy prohibits the making of direct or indirect offers, significantly from the results and events discussed in the forward-looking statements within this report. We discuss
promises or payments of anything of value to third parties, including healthcare professionals, to obtain business various factors that may cause Waters’ actual results to differ from those expressed or implied in the forward-
advantage. In addition, our Global Code of Business Conduct & Ethics prohibits dishonest, unethical and illegal looking statements in this report, including those relating to the impact on Waters’ operating results throughout the
behavior in all territories where the company operates or sells products. All employees receive mandatory training Company’s various market sectors or geographies from economic, regulatory, sovereign and political uncertainties
about their responsibilities in these areas. as well as the impact of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, in the sections entitled “Forward-Looking Statements”,
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”, and “Risk Factors” of
the Company’s Annual Report or Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020 as filed with the Securities and
Table 2. Activity Metrics
Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on February 24, 2021, as updated by the Company’s future filings with the SEC.
Accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements. The forward-looking
HC-MS-000.A Number of units sold by product category statements included in this report represent the Company’s estimates or views as of the date of this report and
should not be relied upon as representing the Company’s estimates or views as of any date subsequent to the date
Waters does not disclose sales volume by number of units sold.
of this report. Except as required by law, the Company does not assume any obligation to update any forward-
looking statements. Goals are aspirational and not guarantees or promises that all goals will be met. Statistics and
metrics relating to ESG matters are estimates and may be based on assumptions or developing standards.
Waters Sustainability Report 2021
Waters Corporation
34 Maple Street
Milford, MA 01757
T: 1-508-478-2000
F: 1-508-872-1990
waters.com
© 2021 Waters Corporation. Waters, The Science of
What’s Possible are trademarks of Waters Corporation.
moc.nosidda
yb
ngiseD
