Unlocking the
Potential of Science by
Solving Problems That Matter
2022 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report
Table of Contents
3 About Us 13 Solving Problems
That Matter
4 About Waters
5 A Message From Our CEO
15 Innovation
17 Collaboration
19 Markets
6 ESG at Waters
7 A Fresh Perspective
21 Disclosures
7 ESG Strategy
8 Environmental Impact
9 Social Impact
11 Governance
Waters 2022 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report
Introduction ESG Solving Problems Disclosures 3
About Us
Waters 2022 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report
Introduction ESG Solving Problems Disclosures 4
About Waters
Waters Corporation, a global leader in analytical instruments, consumables, 7,800+
and software, has pioneered innovations in chromatography, mass
spectrometry, and thermal analysis serving the life, materials, and food employees
sciences for more than 60 years.
With more than 7,800 employees, Waters operates in over 35 countries,
including 14 manufacturing facilities, and has products available in more
$2.8B
than 100 countries. Together with our customers in labs around the world, Headquartered
we deliver scientific insights that unlock the potential of science to solve in Milford, MA
in revenue
problems that matter.
in 2021
Operating in
Large and Growing End Markets1
over
Whether it’s discovering new pharmaceuticals, ensuring the safety of the 35
world’s food and water supplies, or the quality of products used by millions of
people every day, we are constantly working with our thousands of customers
to leave the world better than we found it.
countries
Pharma/Clinical 60% worldwide
$70B
Pharma HSD: Manufacturing volume;
biologics and novel modalities; outsourcing Total market
Clinical MSD-HSD: Early disease detection; 14
volume of testing
Industrial & Applied 30% manufacturing
Food and environment MSD: Safe food, water, facilities
and environmental health; population growth
Materials MSD: Battery testing; Sustainable polymers
Academic & Government 10%
LSD-MSD: Government funding
1 Note: Growth rates here reflect our internal analysis of historical market trend data, which are subject to For more information on our locations, strategy, and financial results,
future changes. Source: Waters data and estimates, consulting data, industry reports and market research. visit waters.com and read our 2021 Annual Report and our 2022 Proxy Statement.
Waters 2022 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report
Introduction ESG Solving Problems Disclosures 5
A Message from Dr. Udit Batra
Our Sustainability Ethos Progress in 2021 intend to influence the outcome of elections, ballot
At Waters, we are committed to playing our part During 2021, Waters made continued progress measures, or other facets of the electoral process.
to ensure that we leave the world better than we against our environmental, social, and governance
Waters’ ESG progress in 2021 was recognized
found it. This commitment is underscored by our (ESG) objectives. We have provided an update on
externally, including being named to the Dow Jones
focus on solving problems that matter; developing our progress using industry frameworks such as the
Sustainability Index, listed as the top-ranked life
a workforce that is representative of the society Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB)
sciences company in Barron’s 2022 Most Sustainable
we live in; and enabling each Waters employee to and the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Starting in
Companies and the tenth-ranked among Healthcare
make a unique, positive contribution. 2021, we aligned our reporting with the United Nations
and Life Sciences companies in Newsweek’s Most
Sustainable Development Goals to provide additional
Solving Problems to Create Responsible Companies.
transparency. Here are some highlights:
a Sustainable Future
Our Future Direction and Continued Commitment
This year’s report demonstrates our commitment Environmental: Scope 1+2 Greenhouse Gas (GHG)
Our pursuit of a sustainable future remains a priority
to creating a more sustainable world. For example, Emissions in 2021 were 5% lower than 2020 levels
for Waters. In this report, we share our future focus
pharmaceutical companies using the Waters and water consumption at our largest manufacturing
areas and ambitions, as reflected in our 2021 ESG
BioAccord™ LC-MS System can monitor critical facilities decreased by 6%. And in 2021, ~58% of
materiality assessment developed in consultation
quality attributes during manufacturing to get electricity used in the 25 most energy-intensive
with internal and external company stakeholders.
much-needed medicines to patients faster. facilities was sourced from renewable or low-carbon
And looking ahead, we expect to report our progress
Our precision instruments are helping to ensure the sources, a two-fold increase over 2020.
against the Task Force on Climate-related Financial
safety of the world’s food and environment, such
Social: Waters earned a 100/100 score on the Disclosures (TCFD) framework.
as using the Waters Xevo™ TQ Absolute to identify
2022 Human Rights Campaign Corporate Equality
perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances I look forward to sharing Waters’ continued progress
Index, administered by the Human Rights Campaign At Waters,
(PFAS) chemical contaminants and ‘forever against our ESG goals, driven by our commitment to
Foundation. We launched the Waters Student we are committed
chemicals’. And our collaborations with three of leave the world better than we found it.
Academy to foster hands-on learning and engagement
the world’s top five electric vehicle manufacturers to playing our part to
with local high school students to complement our
are helping to improve the safety and efficiency
partnerships with three historically Black colleges Sincerely, ensure that we leave
of their next-generation lithium-ion batteries.
and universities. the world better than
Governance: In addition to having an independent we found it.
chair, 57% of our board is diverse when looking at
gender and ethnicity combined. Our company’s political Dr. Udit Batra
participation policy, introduced in February 2022, President & Chief Executive Officer
prohibits political contributions to organizations that Waters Corporation
Waters 2022 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report
Introduction ESG Solving Problems Disclosures 6
Environmental,
Social, and Governance
at Waters
We believe that a sustainability mindset is a part of everyone’s
job. It inspires innovation and contributes to operational
excellence, so we strive to integrate sustainable thinking and
practice into our strategy, operations, and products.
Waters 2022 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report
Introduction ESG Solving Problems Disclosures 7
A Fresh Perspective ESG Strategy
Our guiding principle is to leave the world better than we found it. Our ESG strategy is grounded in this principle,
In 2021, the onboarding of a new leadership team which informs everything from how we think about our energy use or packaging materials to how we support
brought a fresh perspective on sustainability, including and develop our employees and give back to our local and global community.
a new structure with executive oversight and an
We aim to fulfill these promises through our three Environmental, Social and Governance pillars:
updated materiality assessment to help us better
understand our current state and target aspirations.
We engaged a firm that specializes in materiality
Environmental Social Governance
assessments and survey analytics to identify our
most important ESG topics and areas to prioritize. Reduce our most significant Become more representative of the Enhance long-term stakeholder
environmental impacts. society we live in. value with good governance and
effective oversight.
• Reduce GHG emissions by 35% • Increase % of women in
by 2025 from a 2016 baseline leadership (YOY) • Active Board oversight of
enterprise risk management
• Reduce waste to landfill by 50% • Increase % of Black and Latinx
by 2025 from 2019 baseline; zero employees (YOY) • Deliver robust ethics and
waste to landfill by 2030 compliance program
• Increase number of students
• Decrease water use intensity by exposed to, and Waters volunteers • Provide disclosures in accordance
2025 from 2019 baseline engaged in, STEM education in with GRI and SASB
the community (YOY)
approximately
170
suppliers
surveyed
7,000+
employees
surveyed
Waters 2022 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report
Introduction ESG Solving Problems Disclosures 8
Environmental Impact
2021 Initiatives
Emissions Water Supply Chain Digital Software Distribution
Our Twofold Approach
GHG emissions are a priority for Water consumption at our largest We are continuing our efforts We are moving to digital
our sustainability programs. In owned manufacturing sites was to promote sustainability in our distribution of software, a
We are working top-down and bottom-up to reduce our
2021, we achieved a 5% year-over- 6% lower in 2021 than in 2020, and supply chain and have made dematerialization program
environmental impact. At the top, we focus on company-
year reduction in GHG emissions our water withdrawal intensity per incremental progress by measuring that will eliminate over 30,000
wide strategic initiatives to increase our sourcing of
through the purchase of Green-e revenue dollar was 21% lower. our suppliers’ impact. For the first cardboard boxes, over 65,000
renewable energy and policies to reduce the impact
certified Renewable Energy time, we have calculated Scope 3 DVDs, and approximately 100,000
of our operations and supply chain. At the facility level, Credits for several manufacturing Waste emissions from our supply chain pages of printed documentation
we focus on reducing resource consumption through a facilities in the United States. At our largest owned (see GRI Index, page 23). annually, based on 2021 sales
variety of targeted, site-specific initiatives. manufacturing sites, waste volume — the equivalent of more
Electricity Use and generation increased by 3% from We are incorporating sustainability than 1,000 lbs. of paper, a ton of
For example, our facility in Wilmslow, England converted Renewable Power 2020 to 2021, waste to landfill into our supplier evaluation cardboard, and a stack of DVDs
its workspaces from fluorescent to LED lighting, Approximately 58% of electricity decreased from 7% to 5%, and and performance-management more than 255 feet high.
used at Waters Corporation’s the proportion of waste recycled practices. In 2021, approximately
reducing the site’s carbon footprint by approximately
primary sites and largest field increased from 30% to 35%. 55% of our manufacturing
24 tons of CO2 annually. At our corporate headquarters,
offices (25 sites in all) was Intensity of non-recycled waste procurement spend was with
a switch from paper-based contracts to online
sourced from renewable or generated per revenue dollar suppliers who have public ESG
signatures saved an estimated two tons of paper per
low-carbon sources, more than decreased by 18%. reports or goals, up from 50%
year. Our Antwerp, Belgium field office purchased
doubling 2020’s use. More than in 2020.
bicycles that employees can use to run zero-carbon
80% of the real estate footprint Hybrid and Electric Vehicles
errands on their lunch hour.
of our TA Instruments division, Starting with our EMEA service
including 100% of TA-operated fleet, we are replacing gas-
manufacturing facilities, are powered vehicles as current leases
powered by renewable or low- expire. At year-end 2021, the region
carbon energy. had 70 electric vehicles (EV) or
plug-in hybrid electric vehicles For more on
(PHEV). Pending availability, we our environmental
expect to increase that number to topics, see page 31
370 (about 40% of the EMEA fleet)
by the end of 2022.
Waters 2022 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report
Introduction ESG Solving Problems Disclosures 9
Social Impact
DEI Highlights 2021 Initiatives
Diverse Workforce Inclusive Culture Community Engagement
Our approach to Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) is
Today, approximately 31% of We are building on the success Due to the war in Ukraine, there is
designed to shift mindsets, foster inclusive behaviors, and
Waters’ global workforce are of our employee resource groups, a significant refugee community
encourage increased representation of employees with diverse
women. In the U.S., Black which foster a diverse and inclusive in Romania. Our Employee Hub in
backgrounds. To ensure that our DEI programs benefit from employees account for 3% of culture through awareness, Brasov organized a Multicultural
experienced leadership, we hired our first director of DEI in our total and Latinx for 6%. education, and employee Children’s Day where local children
2021 and established the following priorities: We recognize that we are connection. Our global Employee and Ukrainian refugee children
underrepresented in these areas Circles provide opportunities for could play and explore science
and have developed macro and Waters employees to connect with beyond language boundaries.
targeted strategies aimed at teammates throughout the world Waters hosted 80 children from
recruiting more diverse talent. while Employee Hubs encourage preschool to high-school age
engagement at the local level. of which 37 children were from
DIVERSE
the refugee community. We had a
WORKFORCE
We all benefit from more inclusive diverse program with games and
Becoming
teams whose members respect STEM workshops for the children
representative of
and value each other’s perspectives to engage in, specifically chemistry
INCLUSIVE
the society we
and contributions. Our Employee labs, robotics, and painting. Waters
WORKPLACE
live in
Circles and Hubs provide venues employees donated books in the
Creating a workplace
for employees to learn about children’s native language, and
where all employees
themselves and others, finding supplied candy, balloons, and
can thrive
common ground in similarities a magician, all with the goal of
and gaining appreciation for making the children smile while
differences. Recent impactful they learned something new.
programs and events included
COMMUNITY
sharing a series of videos and
ENGAGEMENT
blogs during Black History
Engaging our Month, engagement initiatives
community to build
on International Women’s Day,
stronger and more
and conversations about being
diverse pipelines
a supportive ally to LGBTQIA+
colleagues, in which parents of
the LGBTQIA+ community shared
their personal experiences.
Waters 2022 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report
Introduction ESG Solving Problems Disclosures 10
Social Impact
Philanthropy Highlights
Waters strives to make a positive, lasting impact in the 2021 Initiatives
communities in which we live and work. Our philanthropy
supports organizations who are making advancements
Junior Achievement Waters Student Academy HBCU Partnerships Science and Industry Museum
in human health and well-being, STEM education, and
Waters continued to partner with A highlight of our STEM support Waters partnered with three For over 10 years, Waters has
diversity, equity, and inclusion.
Junior Achievement Worldwide efforts was a pilot program historically Black colleges and sponsored an exhibit which
on programs that support STEM we created in 2021 that invited universities (HBCU) on a program includes a focus on mass
Support for STEM Education
education for more than 2,500 high school students from that combines STEM-based spectrometry. This past year,
Among our most important goals is for Waters to be more
students in five countries. In Ireland, communities in Boston to scholarships for five students Waters developed a brand-
representative of the society we live in. Recognizing and celebrating
where we marked our sixteenth participate in a hands-on learning with direct mentoring by Waters new display in the Revolution
our different experiences is not only our responsibility, it also helps
year of volunteering, we shifted to experience including working employees. The program included Manchester gallery, highlighting
us reach our full potential by harnessing the perspectives, beliefs, and
virtual career days because of the with Waters scientists. The the donation of Alliance™ HPLC the role mass spectrometry has
backgrounds of all our employees.
pandemic. Each semester, Waters program’s curriculum ranged from instruments and Empower™ played in Manchester’s history
employees met with classes to talk science-focused lab experiments Chromatography Data System and growth. The new exhibit
Increasing diversity leads to a wider variety of perspectives, which
about their work experiences and to “soft” skills, such as career software to Cheyney University showcases a video about the
encourages innovation. To that end, Waters supports programs and
the rewards of a STEM career, their planning and presentation skills. of Pennsylvania, Delaware State creation of the world’s smallest
initiatives that promote STEM education for elementary, middle, and high
personal background, and how We later formalized the initiative University, and Clark-Atlanta mass detector, the ACQUITY™
school students, with a special focus on students of color and young
they became interested in the field. as an ongoing program — see story University. Beyond its use in QDa™ Mass Detector that Waters
women (see Waters Student Academy story on page 17).
Across the 2020–2021 school year, on page 17. the sponsored program, access donated to the museum. Each
this group of Waters volunteers to sophisticated laboratory year, nearly 540,000 people visit
engaged with more than 600 equipment can have a significant the museum, with more than a third
students in five schools through positive impact on the science being children under 15. Waters
this partnership. programs at these universities. also partners with the museum on
STEM outreach programs in the
community, including an annual
For more on science festival.
our social topics,
see page 37
Waters 2022 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report
Introduction ESG Solving Problems Disclosures 11
Governance
Our efforts focus on enhancing long-term stakeholder 2021 Highlights
value by ensuring that we have effective board
governance and oversight, as well as policies and
Board Governance Political Participation Cybersecurity Product Safety
procedures to manage risk and ensure compliance.
Our board is led by an independent Published on February 15, 2022, Our board of directors, through Our product stewardship function
chair and is comprised of our policy prohibits the Company its audit committee and in ensures that our products do
In recent years we have increased transparency and
directors with extensive industry and its Company Parties from coordination with management, not contain substances that
accountability by aligning our reporting with third-party
experience and a broad set of skills, making political contributions of oversees our information security would prohibit their sale, use,
frameworks like the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI),
backgrounds, and attributes critical any kind, including contributions program to ensure we have in or safe disposal, and works with
the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB)
to providing us with strategic and to political candidates, campaigns place appropriate and sufficient our distribution team to make
and, this year, the UN Sustainable Development operational oversight. or parties, political committees policies and processes to manage sure chemistry consumables
Goals (SDGs). Going forward we expect to report our including “527 organizations” emerging threats and adapt to are appropriately labeled and
progress against the Task Force on Climate-related The board continues to focus or trade groups with an regulatory change. packaged to ensure their safe
Financial Disclosures (TCFD) framework. on ongoing board refreshment intent to, directly or indirectly, shipment to our customers
and succession planning. Our participate in or otherwise Compliance around the world.
Corporate Governance Guidelines influence the outcome of ballot Waters is committed to conducting
provide that when assessing measures or other facets of our business ethically and in
candidates for Director, the the electoral process. full compliance with our own
board considers candidates’ internal systems and the laws
skills, experience, and diversity and regulations of the countries
(such as, and including but not where we operate. As the world’s
limited to, diversity of gender, compliance and regulatory
race/ethnicity, age, geographic postures evolve, we will continue
location, and nationality), and to align with best practices.
seeks individuals who are highly
accomplished in their respective
fields, with superior educational
and professional credentials.
Today, 57% of our board is diverse
when looking at gender and
ethnicity combined.
Waters 2022 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report
Introduction ESG Solving Problems Disclosures 12
Awards
We were honored to receive multiple awards and
recognitions over the past year, including:
Waters is proud to be included in the
Dow Jones Sustainability Index.
Waters is proud to be ranked 6th in Barron’s
2022 list of the 100 Most Sustainable
* Companies, and the top life sciences
company. The huge jump from our
35th position in 2021 reflects
Waters’ commitment to ESG
Waters received the highest MSCI and sustainability.
rating of ‘AAA’. Companies are
measured on an ‘AAA’ to ‘CCC’ scale
Newsweek:
according to their exposure to
America’s Most
industry-specific ESG risks and
Responsible Companies
their ability to manage those
Waters ranked 10th among
risks relative to peers.
Healthcare and Life Sciences
companies and 63rd in
Newsweek’s survey of the
500 most responsible
companies in the USA.
BioTech
Waters is proud to have earned a
Breakthrough Awards
100/100 score on the annual scorecard
Overall BioPharma
for LGBTQ+ workplace equality.
Innovation of the
Year 2021
* The use by Waters Corporation of any MSCI ESG Research LLC or its affiliates (“MSCI”) data, and the use of MSCI logos, trademarks, service marks or index
names herein, do not constitute a sponsorship, endorsement, recommendation, or promotion of Waters Corporation by MSCI. MSCI services and data are
the property of MSCI or its information providers, and are provided ‘as-is’ and without warranty. MSCI names and logos are trademarks or service marks of MSCI.
Waters 2022 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report
Introduction ESG Solving Problems Disclosures 13
Solving Problems
That Matter
Waters 2022 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report
Introduction ESG Solving Problems Disclosures 14
Solving Problems That Matter
At Waters we are constantly pushing the Innovation Collaboration Markets
boundaries of science to improve our world.
We’re doing our part to leave the world better
• The advanced sensitivity of the Xevo™ TQ Absolute • Waters is helping to create a more diverse talent • Waters is working with leading electric vehicle
than we found it by solving problems that
mass spectrometer is helping Waters’ customers pipeline for science-based industries through manufacturers to ensure that their lithium-ion
matter through innovation and collaboration
identify harmful PFAS “forever chemicals” in the programs that provide students exposure to STEM batteries are safe, efficient, durable, and can be
in the markets we serve.
environment — see story on page 15. education and career opportunities — see story on recycled appropriately — see story on page 19.
page 17.
• Our new Precision Chemistry facility in Taunton, • Waters partnered with Sartorius to provide
Massachusetts is the only publicly recognized • Waters opened a bioprocess lab at the University bioprocess engineers with analytical measurement
LEED-certified chemical manufacturing plant in of Delaware to spark innovation and reimagine technology to help change the speed at which
Massachusetts and one of a small number of such biopharmaceutical manufacturing processes to help promising new therapies are developed, approved,
plants in the U.S. — see story on page 16. bring lifesaving drugs to market faster and at lower and made available to patients — see story on
cost — see story on page 18. page 20.
Waters 2022 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report
Introduction ESG Solving Problems Disclosures 15
Innovation
Detecting and Removing “Forever
Chemicals” from Our Environment
Perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances, known The Xevo™ TQ Absolute is a powerful, compact,
as PFAS, are widely used, long-lasting chemical and sustainable advancement in quantitation
compounds found in many consumer, commercial, that delivers time and cost savings, helping labs
and industrial products. Because they break down maintain high performance and productivity without
very slowly over time, they’re commonly referred to sacrificing efficiency.
as “forever chemicals,” and scientific studies have
shown that they may be harmful to humans and the High performance analytical instruments in this class
environment. PFAS are found in the air, water, and soil, typically consume substantial energy and occupy a
and at low levels in many food products. There are large footprint in the lab, but the Xevo™ TQ Absolute
thousands of PFAS chemical variants, adding to the offers solutions to both challenges.
difficulty of studying their impact on health.
• Its reduced heat displacement (about 50% less
compared to similar instruments) means that a lab Changing the landscape of high-performance
Today, Waters instruments are helping our customers
requires less air conditioning — lowering energy use, tandem quadrupole mass spectrometry is about
identify PFAS at very low levels to study their
cost, and total environmental impact delivering increased performance to solve our
persistence and toxicity, as the scientific community
customers’ toughest problems, while also helping
works to develop solutions to remove them from • Its benchtop design reduces its lab footprint and
them to reduce their environmental impact.
our environment. In New England, where Waters is requires fewer disposable parts
headquartered, one state public health laboratory was
• It also uses half the electricity and nitrogen gas
the first to purchase and install a Waters Xevo™ TQ
of other high-performance tandem quadrupole
Absolute high-performance tandem quadrupole mass
instruments, making it the most efficient instrument
spectrometer for the express purpose of PFAS testing
in its class, while being up to 15 times more sensitive
in water and environmental samples. The customer
than its predecessor for measuring negative
indicates their Xevo™ TQ Absolute is providing a
ionizing compounds
100–400-fold increase in sensitivity, is far easier to use
in terms of sample prep, and quickly delivers highly
accurate results.
Waters 2022 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report
Introduction ESG Solving Problems Disclosures 16
Innovation
Designed for Sustainable
Manufacturing
Our new Precision Chemistry manufacturing facility
in Taunton, Massachusetts has been designed to
increase operational safety and reduce a wide range
of environmental impacts while enabling Waters to
keep pace with growing customer demand. conference room, warehouse aisle, and bathroom. In
winter months, cold outside air provides cooling for
The facility manufactures silica packing material production, a process known as “free cooling.”
for chromatography columns used by separations
scientists worldwide. Products manufactured at this To reduce water consumption, de-ionized reverse
Waters site are essential for the development and osmosis reject water will supply “flushing water” for
quality testing of mRNA vaccines and medicines and restrooms and, during the warmer months, it will also
for testing the purity of food and water for millions of be used to irrigate the lawn. New on-site hazardous
people worldwide. It is the only publicly recognized waste treatment capabilities will enable recovery of
LEED-certified chemical manufacturing plant in organic solvents and reduce the amount of organic
Massachusetts, and among a small number of LEED- and aqueous waste that is shipped offsite by 50%.
certified chemical plants in the entire U.S.2 Solvent emissions will be greatly reduced by using
a regenerative thermal oxidizer. Last but not least,
Winner of an “Impact Award” from MassEcon, the the building features bird collision deterrence on
140,000-square-foot facility is nearly triple the size of its windows. Glass reflection leads to the death of
the building it replaces. It will provide 33% more jobs between 365 and 988 million birds each year due to
for the region3 and it will support anticipated business collisions with windows and other glass structures.
growth for years to come. Our new facility includes design elements that break
up these reflections.
The building incorporates numerous design features
that reduce energy consumption, hazardous waste, In all, this new facility is substantially more efficient
and water usage. Every light in the plant is on than the plant it replaces in terms of the resource
an automated control system to dim or shut off consumption needed to manufacture a given quantity
completely, with motion sensors in every office, of material.
2 Source: LEED certified projects as of June 21, 2022. https://www.usgbc.org/projects?Search+Library=%22chemical%22
3 https://massecon.com/press-releases/press-release-14-growing-massachusetts-firms-named-winners-of-team-massachusetts-impact-awards/
Waters 2022 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report
Introduction ESG Solving Problems Disclosures 17
Collaboration
Building a More
Diverse Talent Pipeline
One of our goals at Waters and for our industry, education, business, and science components with Working in groups, students were tasked with
is to be more representative of the society we live a goal of sparking students’ interests in STEM learning researching impurities in over-the-counter medicines
in. A significant challenge to increasing diversity in and career opportunities. or measuring PFAS levels in drinking water samples.
science-based businesses is the lack of a strong With guidance from Waters mentors, they researched
diverse talent pipeline. In early 2022 we formalized and expanded the the problem, discussed potential outcomes and
program naming it Waters Student Academy (WSA). behavioral changes they would make based on what
Waters is helping to build that pipeline by sponsoring This year WSA hosted students from three local they learned. They presented their findings as a team
programs that provide students from diverse schools — two in the Boston area and one in Milford, to Waters executives, mentors, and volunteers, as
backgrounds exposure to STEM topics and career Massachusetts. Additionally, Waters mentors and well as school leaders. As a result of this program,
opportunities throughout their educational journey teachers participated in a custom training program many of the students expressed a desire to continue
from middle school through high school and college. focused on unconscious bias training in STEM exploring different areas of science and potential
education. Students engaged in learning opportunities careers in STEM.
Waters introduced a pilot program in 2021 that within science labs, on the manufacturing floor, and
invited students from Boston’s Jeremiah Burke in global service, while also gaining exposure to other
High School and Team New England, a youth business skills in sessions with Waters IT, HR, and
development program, to participate in a unique Marketing teams.
six-week program that combined mentoring,
Waters 2022 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report
Introduction ESG Solving Problems Disclosures 18
Collaboration
Bringing Lifesaving
Drugs to Market Faster
Biopharmaceuticals like insulin, monoclonal from the process,” a well-known scientific and regulatory
antibodies, or COVID-19 vaccines, are known as challenge that has held back biologic drug manufacturing
biologics — medicines created from living cells. As innovation for decades.
end-products of a natural process it’s well known
that biologics such as proteins, made under identical Opened in May 2022, the fit-for-purpose research lab at
manufacturing conditions, vary from one batch to the Immerse Delaware focuses on the entire manufacturing
next. Making sure that a protein is safe and effective process from clone selection to quality control (QC) of drug
before it reaches the pharmacy shelf requires a battery substances, bringing real-world issues into the classroom
of tests performed on LC-MS instruments suitable for and giving students, faculty, and industry researchers
the task. access to Waters’ state-of-the-art analytical technologies.
Researchers from Waters and the University of Waters is actively connected to the National Institute
Delaware, a leader in chemical and biological for Innovation in Manufacturing Biopharmaceuticals
manufacturing research, are partnering to develop (NIIMBL), a federally funded collaboration that gathers
solutions that can better characterize biological top scientific and policy experts representing industry,
manufacturing processes and drive improvements in academia, and regulators. At Immerse Delaware, Waters
quality, yields, efficiency, and process control. scientists will leverage analytical technologies and their
expertise, working in collaboration with faculty at the
Recognizing that meeting these challenges will university, and align with clear unmet needs highlighted
require an immense amount of work, collaboration, by NIIMBL to identify opportunities for exploration and
and diversity of thought, our partnership embarked advancement in the bioprocessing field.
on a multi-year research project to spark innovation
and develop novel analytical solutions for improving Waters hopes these collaborations will enable a shift in
biopharmaceutical manufacturing processes. The regulatory emphasis from approval of the manufacturing
showpiece of this collaboration is Immerse Delaware, process to approval of the finished drug itself, helping to
A Waters Innovation and Research Lab. speed new and lower-cost treatments to market.
Our partnership aspires to eventually help the industry Immerse Delaware is the second research and innovation
significantly accelerate the delivery of high-quality hub that Waters has sponsored, after Immerse Cambridge,
medicines to patients by “decoupling the product which opened in Massachusetts in 2020.
Waters 2022 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report
Introduction ESG Solving Problems Disclosures 19
Markets
Safer, More Efficient Batteries
for Electric Vehicles
As the world moves toward more renewable sources due to accidents or defective materials leading to
of energy, electric vehicles (EVs) offer a low-carbon, product recalls will increase in direct proportion.4
transportation alternative to fossil-fuel-powered cars
and trucks. While millions of Americans are already Three of the world’s top five (and five of the top 10) EV
driving them today, widespread adoption of EVs manufacturers5 rely on analytical technologies from
will require a consistently high level of performance Waters’ TA Instruments division for EV battery R&D
and safety from their power source: lithium-ion and product quality testing. These manufacturers
batteries (LiB). employ the full breadth of our technology (thermal
analysis, rheology, and microcalorimetry) to ensure
Research, development, and innovation must continue that their batteries are safe, efficient, durable, and can
at a rapid pace to meet that goal. According to the be recycled appropriately.
National Transportation Safety Board, battery fires —
while statistically rare — are the leading safety risks of Waters understands the material characterization
LiB in EVs. As millions more EVs hit global roadways needs of battery developers, and our products provide
over the next 10 years, the instances of battery fires insights across the product chain, from raw materials
to battery components, battery cell production, and
recycling. As the LiB value chain becomes more
complex and vertically integrated, our instruments will
continue to solve key research and testing needs for
this rapidly growing industry.
4 https://www.ntsb.gov/safety/safety-studies/Pages/HWY19SP002.aspx
5 Top five by revenue.
Waters 2022 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report
Introduction ESG Solving Problems Disclosures 20
Markets
Speeding Potential Cancer
Treatments to Market
As our understanding of human biology deepens, new drug to market is a time-consuming and very Combining the BioAccord system with Sartorius Waters has partnered
biotherapeutics have opened the door to new expensive undertaking with no guarantee of success. Ambr® Bioreactors gives bioprocess engineers faster
with industry leader
treatments and cures, offering hope and a new To help remedy this situation, Waters is partnering and direct access to advanced quality characterization
Sartorius to provide
lease on life to millions of patients. Cancer is one with industry leader Sartorius to give bioprocess information for clone selection and process
area where they are having an impact. engineers powerful analytical tools designed for ease development where it counts. While today these bioprocess engineers with
of use that will help increase the speed at which results can sometimes take more than a month to new measurement tools.
While conventional small-molecule chemotherapy promising new therapies are developed, approved, receive from a central analytical laboratory, BioAccord
helps many cancer patients, its side effects and made available to patients. can provide analytical results in as little as 24 hours,
including immune suppression, neuropathy, and accelerating the development timeline for medicines,
nausea, are a significant challenge in their own right. The Waters BioAccord™ LC-MS System is the first vaccines, and other therapeutic treatments.
Biotherapeutics are designed to more precisely SmartMS-enabled, high-resolution instrument of
target and destroy tumors and avoid damaging its kind designed specifically for biopharmaceutical
healthy cells and tissue. Clinical evidence suggests analysis that is simple to operate. It is becoming an
most patients better tolerate and respond to these essential tool for bioprocess engineers who need
biotherapeutics. However, identifying a candidate quick information about the quality attributes of drug
molecule, conducting clinical trials, and bringing a substances produced in a bioreactor.
Waters 2022 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report
Introduction ESG Solving Problems Disclosures 21
Disclosures
This report covers Waters’ approach and progress on
ESG topics through the 2021 calendar year and some
highlights from the first half of 2022. This report was
developed in accordance with the Core Level of the 2016
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting
Standards as well as the Sustainability Accounting
Standards Board (SASB) Standards for the Healthcare —
Medical Equipment & Supplies Sector. We are currently
investigating reporting against the Taskforce for Climate-
related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) framework.
Waters 2022 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report
Introduction ESG Solving Problems Disclosures 22
Sustainable Development Goals
Waters recognizes the importance of the United Nations 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and aims to support
its relevant Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) through our focus on leaving the world better than we found it.
The SDGs offer a roadmap for peace and prosperity for all people and for our planet, and for the first time we’ve aligned
our sustainability pillars and material topics to the relevant goals.
Environment Social Governance
Reduce our most significant environmental impacts. Become more representative of the society we live in. Enhance long-term stakeholder value with good governance
and effective oversight.
Waters 2022 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report
Introduction ESG Solving Problems Disclosures 23
GRI INDEX (2016 VERSION) COVERING FY21 DATA EXCEPT WHERE NOTED 102-7 Scale of the organization
Our 2021 revenue was $2.8 billion. 39% of our sales were in Asia, 33% were in the Americas, and 28% were
GRI 100: Universal Standards
in Europe, the Middle East, and the United Kingdom. For more information, see About Waters on page 4,
2021 10-K, pages 55–56 (“Consolidated Balance Sheets” and “Consolidated Statements of Operations”) and
page 35 (“Sales by Geography”).
102-1 Name of the organization
102-8 Information on employees and other workers
Waters Corporation
Waters employed approximately 7,800 employees in 35 countries as of December 31, 2021. For more information
about the composition of our workforce and board of directors, see 2022 Proxy, page 1 (“ESG and Shareholder
102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Engagement at Waters”) and GRI 405-1 on page 39.
About Waters, page 4
102-9 Supply chain
2021 10-K, page 3 (“General”)
Waters operates manufacturing facilities in the United States (Massachusetts, Delaware, Missouri, Colorado, Utah,
2022 Proxy, page 1 (“What is Waters Corporation”)
and Minnesota), the United Kingdom, Ireland, and Germany. In addition, we outsource the manufacturing of some
instruments and components to well-established contract manufacturing firms in Singapore. Elements of some
102-3 Location of headquarters products are manufactured by outside contractors and then returned to our facilities for final assembly, calibration,
34 Maple Street, Milford, Massachusetts, United States and quality control.
We purchase from (or authorize our contract manufacturers’ use of) more than 4,000 suppliers of raw materials
102-4 Location of operations
and components from suppliers located around the world. For more information, see 2021 10-K, page 9–10
About Waters, page 4. Waters Corporation operates in 19 United States facilities and 69 international
(“Manufacturing and Distribution” and “Raw Materials”) and GRI 204 on page 29.
facilities, including field offices. Waters operates in 35 countries, including 14 manufacturing facilities. For
additional information, see 2021 10-K, page 26 (“Primary Facility Locations”), and 2022 Proxy, page 1 (“What is
102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain
Waters Corporation”).
There were no material changes to our operating structure or supply chain in 2021. We consolidated some small
facilities in Brazil, Germany, and the United Kingdom. These actions did not have a material impact on our facilities
102-5 Ownership and legal form
or environmental footprint.
Waters Corporation, organized as a Delaware corporation in 1991, is a holding company that owns all of the
outstanding common stock of Waters Technologies Corporation, its operating subsidiary. Waters Corporation
102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach
became a publicly traded company with its initial public offering in November 1995. Waters Corporation trades on
The precautionary principle does not explicitly guide Waters’ decisions.
the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol WAT.
102-6 Markets served
About Waters, page 4. Waters’ products are used by pharmaceutical, biochemical, industrial, nutritional safety,
environmental, academic, and governmental customers working in research and development, quality assurance,
and other laboratory applications. For more information, see 2021 10-K, pages 3–9 (“Waters Products and
Markets” and “TA Products and Markets”).
Waters 2022 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report
Introduction ESG Solving Problems Disclosures 24
GRI 102-12 External initiatives 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities
Our philanthropy supports organizations who are making advancements in human health and well-being, STEM 2021 10-K, pages 16–25 (“Risk Factors”)
education, and diversity, equity, and inclusion.
102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior
• Health and well-being: Improving health and well-being by supporting organizations driving advancements
A message from Udit Batra, page 5. For more information: Corporate Governance Guidelines, Global Code of
in clinical diagnostics and medicines, as well as ensuring access to food safety and security
Business Conduct & Ethics, Global Complaint Reporting Policy, Political Participation Policy.
• STEM education: Investing in future talent by supporting STEM education for elementary, middle, and high
school students with a special focus on supporting people of color and women in STEM 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics
Waters maintains a variety of channels, including its Waters Ethics Helpline, that employees, customers, suppliers,
• Diverse communities: Supporting organizations that are aligned with our Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion
and other third parties may use as a mechanism to raise concerns. This helpline is available 24/7 via telephone or
efforts and the intent of our Employee Circles (Multicultural, Pride, Veterans, and Gender Diversity)
web in 11 languages and is confidentially operated by a third-party vendor. For more information, see 2022 Proxy,
page 19 (“How to Communicate With Us”) and Global Complaint Reporting Policy.
102-13 Membership of associations
We are members of several industry and trade associations, some of which are listed below:
102-18 Governance structure
• Analytical, Life Sciences & Diagnostics Association (ALDA) We believe sound principles of corporate governance are essential to protecting Waters’ reputation, assets,
investor confidence, customer loyalty, and sustainability. For more information, see 2022 Proxy, pages 10–19
• American Society for Mass Spectrometry (ASMS)
(“Corporate Governance”).
• Associated Industries of Massachusetts
102-19 Delegating authority
• Boston College Center for Corporate Citizenship
Our General Counsel, who reports to our CEO, is the head of an ESG Program Management Office (PMO),
• CDP Climate respondent which serves as a steering committee. The ESG PMO reviews the ESG program with the CEO and updates the
Board on ESG matters.
• Massachusetts Biotechnology Council
The ESG PMO’s membership also includes four other executives who report to our CEO: our SVP of Global
• Massachusetts High Tech Council
Operations, our SVP of Human Resources, our VP of Corporate Communications, and our Chief Financial Officer.
• New England Council The day-to-day activities of the ESG PMO are carried out by several director-level employees in each executive
sponsor’s respective organization.
• Women in Manufacturing Association (WiM)
102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker
A message from Dr. Udit Batra, page 5. For more information: 2021 Annual Report (CEO Letter) and
2022 Proxy, (CEO Letter). Waters philanthropic efforts are focused on improving the
quality of life in the communities where we work and live.
Waters 2022 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report
Introduction ESG Solving Problems Disclosures 25
102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics customer loyalty. Waters attracts a significant percentage of the market’s long-term, ESG-focused investors.
Executive responsibility for ESG lies with our General Counsel. Good governance starts at the top, where our Board and its committees are charged with ensuring that Waters’
business is conducted in an ethical and responsible manner. For more information, see 2022 Proxy, page 14
102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics (“Board’s Role in Risk Oversight Generally”), Global Code of Business Conduct and Ethics.
A Fresh Perspective, page 7. Materiality Assessment, GRI 102-29. Approach to stakeholder engagement, GRI
102-43 on page 27 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body
Our Board possesses a deep and broad set of skills and experiences that facilitate strong oversight and strategic
102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees direction for a leading global analytical instrument provider. For more information, see 2022 Proxy, pages 5–9
2022 Proxy, pages 4–19 (“Who We Are” and “Corporate Governance”). (“Director Tenure, Experience, and Skills”).
102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance
Dr. Flemming Ornskov, M.D., M.P.H. assumed the role of Chairman of the Board in March 2020. Waters has The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee conducts an annual evaluation of the Board and each of
separated the roles of President and Chief Executive Officer and the Chairman of the Board, with the President its committees. For additional information, see 2022 Proxy, page 11 (“How We Are Evaluated”).
and CEO remaining a board member. The Board believes that this structure strikes an appropriate balance
between strong leadership and independent oversight. Diverse perspectives are crucial to the Board’s ability to 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impacts
effectively oversee the strategic direction of the company. Our mission to leave the world better than we found it is the guiding force behind our decisions and actions.
With that in mind, we undertook a revised materiality assessment in 2021 to identify the environmental, social,
102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body and governance topics that are most important to our organization and our stakeholders. The results have helped
The entire Board is elected annually, each to hold office until his or her successor is elected and qualified or until refine and focus our approach to ESG and sustainability topics. Our materiality assessment considered input from
his or her earlier resignation, death, or removal. For more information, see 2022 Proxy, page 10 (“How we are employees, customers, investors, and suppliers. For more information, see A Fresh Perspective, page 7 and
selected and elected”). GRI 102-43 on page 27.
102-25 Conflicts of interest 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes
As of September 1, 2022, Waters does not have a controlling shareholder. Waters discloses our directors’ current Waters’ Board oversees the Company’s global enterprise risk management program (“ERM”). The centralized
and prior experience and public company board memberships. For more information, including disclosures program enables the Board, management, and other employees to participate in the review of company
regarding Interested Party transactions, see our Global Code of Business Conduct & Ethics, page 5 (“Conflicts procedures, set policy, and evaluate the impact of a variety of key business risks, including strategic, operational,
of Interest”), 2022 Proxy, pages 5–9 (“Director Tenure, Experience, and Skills”) and 12–13 (“Related Party compliance, and financial and reporting risks.
Transactions Policy”).
Operationally, the Company’s enterprise risk management program is managed by Waters’ Chief Compliance
Officer and VP, Internal Audit, who has a direct reporting line to the Board’s Audit Committee, and who works with
102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy
the functional leaders within the organization that in turn implement risk evaluation and mitigation measures.
Over more than 60 years in business, Waters has established a reputation for maintaining the highest standard
of integrity. Our commitment to ethical business practices reinforces our desire to leave the world better At least annually, as part of the Board’s standing topics for review, the Company’s management, including its Chief
than we found it for our customers, employees, shareholders, and society at every opportunity. Adherence to Compliance Officer and VP, Internal Audit, members of the executive team, and business owners review ERM with
sound governance principles is also essential to protecting our reputation, our assets, investor confidence, and the Board. The Company’s report to the Board includes insight, observation, and analysis from business owners
Waters 2022 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report
Introduction ESG Solving Problems Disclosures 26
and senior management, who lead strategic and operational efforts, and members of the Company’s Audit, The Company has adopted an anti-hedging policy that is incorporated as part of Waters’ insider trading policy
Compliance, and Legal functions. For more information, see 2022 Proxy, page 14 (“Risk Oversight”) and 2021 10-K, and prohibits impacted individuals from purchasing financial instruments, including prepaid variable forward
pages 16–25 (“Risk Factors”). contracts, equity swaps, collars, or units of exchange funds that are designed to hedge or offset any decrease
in market value of equity securities of the Company. For more information, see 2022 Proxy, pages 13–14 (“Policy
102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics Against Hedging”).
Materiality Assessment, GRI 102-29 on page 25
102-36 Process for determining remuneration
Approach to stakeholder engagement, GRI 102-43 on page 27
2022 Proxy, page 31–32 (“Compensation Setting Process”)
102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting
102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration
Our CEO and executive team, along with all members of our ESG PMO, review and provide input to our ESG
Our annual Say-on-Pay shareholder vote helps determine the structure of our executive compensation program,
report, and ultimately approve its publication. All topics covered are also reviewed by relevant subject matter
as well as in making future compensation decisions. For more information, see 2022 Proxy, page 28–29
experts within the organization.
(“Shareholder Outreach and Say-On-Pay”).
102-33 Communicating critical concerns
102-38 Annual total compensation ratio
As a mechanism for employees, customers, suppliers, and other third parties, Waters maintains an email
The estimated ratio of the annual total compensation of our CEO to the median of the annual total compensation
inbox, ethics@waters.com, for questions. Additionally, Waters has an established helpline, that may be used
of all other employees in 2021 was approximately 116-to-1. For more information, see 2022 Proxy, page 53 (“CEO
as a mechanism to raise concerns. This helpline is available 24/7 via telephone or web in 11 languages and is
Pay Ratio Disclosure”).
confidentially operated by a third-party vendor. Our Chief Compliance Officer, VP Internal Audit is responsible for
the oversight of these reporting mechanisms and has a direct reporting line to the Board. For more information,
102-39 Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio
see GRI 102-17 on page 24.
The estimated ratio of the annual total compensation of our CEO to the median of the annual total compensation
of all other employees in 2020 was approximately 116-to-1. Our CEO pay ratio in 2020 was 106-to-1, and the
102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns
year-over-year increase in this ratio was 9.4%. For more information, see 2022 Proxy, page 53 (“CEO Pay
Waters does not disclose this information, except as required by law. We have a robust internal framework for
Ratio Disclosure”).
reporting of critical concerns and risks, as discussed under GRI 102-17 on page 24 and GRI 102-30 on page 25.
102-40 List of stakeholder groups
102-35 Remuneration policies
Our most recent materiality assessment included customers, shareholders, suppliers, and employees.
There are three primary elements of our executive compensation program: base salary, annual incentive program
(AIP), and Long-Term Incentive (LTI) awards. For more information, see 2022 Proxy, pages 32–39 (“Elements of
102-41 Collective bargaining agreements
Executive Compensation”).
The Company’s employees are not unionized or affiliated with any internal or external labor organizations. For
The Company has adopted a Recoupment Policy for cash incentive awards paid to current or former named more information, see 2021 10-K, page 11–13 (“Human Capital”).
executive officers under the Company’s Annual Incentive Plan (AIP). Under this policy, if any executive officer
engaged in misconduct that resulted in a restatement of financial results, the Board or an authorized committee,
such as the Compensation Committee, if it is determined appropriate, could seek reimbursement of the portion of
AIP awards impacted by the event. For more information, see 2022 Proxy, page 31 (“Recoupment Policy”).
Waters 2022 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report
Introduction ESG Solving Problems Disclosures 27
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements
Waters has identified our key stakeholders as our investors, customers, employees, and suppliers, whose input we This report covers the combined activities of our two operating divisions, Waters and TA Instruments, which
solicit when evaluating material topics in the context of sustainability and ESG activities. We periodically engage together account for 100% of our sales and service revenue. Both entities’ financial performance is itemized in our
in conversations with our community and philanthropic partners to ensure that our activities are delivering benefit consolidated financial statements. In 2021, TA Instruments represented approximately 11.2% of our revenue, with
as intended and that they align with Waters’ mission, vision, and values, For more information, see GRI 102-29 on the remainder coming from Waters. Unless otherwise noted, all data in this report refers to Waters Corporation in
page 25 and A Fresh Perspective on page 7. its entirety. For additional information, 2021 10-K, page 98 (“Business Segment Information”).
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries
Our multi-step materiality process in 2021 included internal research to identify key material topics, stakeholder Materiality Assessment, GRI 102-29 page 25
engagement, and feedback, and the development of a methodology to prioritize issues and opportunities. To
ensure that our strategy was aligned with industry best practices as well as an independent point of view, 102-47 List of material topics
we engaged independent consultants to assist with the assessment and validate our findings. Our research GRI 102-44.
included a peer review of customers and a review of prior outreach from customers and investors. We surveyed
and interviewed a broad array of stakeholders, including customers, investors, and suppliers, and distributed 102-48 Restatements of information
a company-wide survey to over 7,000 Waters colleagues around the world. We will continue to engage with There are no restatements of data from our 2021 report.
stakeholders to ensure that our ESG strategy is appropriately aligned. For more information, see A Fresh
Perspective on page 7. 102-49 Changes in reporting
There are no material changes to our ESG reporting methodology for this report.
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised
Our Materiality Assessment process identified the following as the most important ESG topics for 102-50 Reporting period
our stakeholders. This report includes key data covering the Fiscal Year ending December 31, 2021, with some highlights from
early 2022.
Environment Social Governance
• GHG Emissions and Energy • Diversity, Equity & Inclusion • Compliance & Ethics
• Water Management • STEM Education • Customer Data Privacy
Waters has identified our key stakeholders as our investors,
• Waste Management • Philanthropy • Information Security
customers, employees, and suppliers, whose input we solicit
• Sustainable Supply
Chain Management when evaluating material topics in the context of sustainability
• Environmental Impact of and ESG activities.
Products
Waters 2022 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report
Introduction ESG Solving Problems Disclosures 28
102-51 Date of most recent report
November 17, 2021
102-52 Reporting cycle
Waters issues annual ESG (formerly called Sustainability) reports. This report was published in the fourth quarter
of 2022 and covers ESG activities for the Fiscal Year ending December 31, 2021, with some highlights from early
2022. Our prior report was published in November 2021, covering 2020 and early 2021. Unless otherwise noted, all
data and performance indicators are for the year ending December 31, 2021.
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report
Andrew Pastor, Sustainability Director (sustainability@waters.com)
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards
Core level
102-55 GRI content index
GRI index, page 23.
102-56 External assurance
We do not currently have external assurance on our ESG reporting.
Waters 2022 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report
Introduction ESG Solving Problems Disclosures 29
GRI 200: Economic Topics 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported
Our mass spectrometry center of excellence in Wilmslow, UK, completed in 2014, was constructed to meet the
BREEAM “Very Good” standard and includes built-in sustainable components such as rainwater harvesting tanks,
solar panels, and heat recovery systems. In Taunton, MA, our precision chemistry site is responsible for bulk
synthesis of chromatographic media, which is critical to sample analysis for pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical,
201: Economic Performance
materials, food, clinical, and biomedical research applications. In 2018, Waters announced a $200+ million
commitment to build and equip a state-of-the-art facility that will expand the chemistry operation to support rising
About Waters, page 4. For more information, see 2021 10-K, pages 32–50 (“Financial Overview”) and page 60 global demand, as well as advancement in chemistry technology innovation. Last year, we continued construction
(“Description of Business and Organization”). that incorporates elements of Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED®) to optimize efficiency and
achieve base level certification. For more information, see page 16.
201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed
2021 Annual Report (CEO letter) and 10-K, page 32 (“Financial Overview”) 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts
Waters provides economic benefit to the communities where we operate, as an employer of more than 7,800
201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change dedicated professionals, and as a philanthropic partner. Waters philanthropic efforts are focused on improving
2021 10-K, page 13–14 (“Environmental Matters and Climate Change”) and pages 23–24 (“Risk Factors”) See also the quality of life in the communities where we work and live. This is mostly done through our financial support of
our most recent CDP Climate response. relevant non-profit organizations which align with our business and purpose, as well as through volunteer activities
which utilize our scientific expertise. Our primary philanthropic pillars are as follows:
201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans
• Health and well-being: Improving health and well-being by supporting organizations driving advancements in
2020 10-K, pages 91–98 (“Retirement Plans”).
clinical diagnostics and medicines, as well as ensuring access to food safety and security
201-4 Financial assistance received from government • STEM education: Investing in future talent by supporting STEM education for elementary, middle, and high
2021 10-K, page 85. school students with a special focus on supporting people of color and women in STEM
• Diverse communities: Supporting organizations that are aligned with our Diversity, Equity & Inclusion efforts
203: Indirect Economic Impacts and the intent of our Employee Circles (Multicultural, Pride, Veterans, and Gender Diversity)
Waters Corporation, a global leader in analytical instruments and software, has pioneered innovations in 204: Procurement Practices
chromatography, mass spectrometry, and thermal analysis serving life, materials, and food sciences for more than
60 years. With more than 7,800 employees worldwide, Waters operates directly in over 35 countries, including 14
Waters overall supply chain management practices are overseen by our Vice President, Global Supply Chain,
manufacturing facilities, and has products available in more than 100 countries.
who has authority for direct (product) and indirect (capital) procurement, demand planning, distribution and
Our business model supports our customers’ success; we produce products that provide dependably accurate logistics, and trade compliance. Our Global Supply Chain organization works in conjunction with our engineering,
and precise analyses necessary for effective research and quality control. Together with our customers, in labs manufacturing, quality, and product stewardship teams to ensure that purchased goods and services meet
around the world, we deliver scientific insights to improve human health and well-being, helping to ensure we technical, quality, and regulatory requirements.
leave the world better than we found it.
Our supply chain management practices are optimized around several guiding principles. First and foremost, our
suppliers must be able to meet technical and quality requirements. Furthermore, we expect that suppliers will act
in accordance with the principles outlined in our Supplier Quality Manual and Global Code of Business Conduct
Waters 2022 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report
Introduction ESG Solving Problems Disclosures 30
and Ethics. Finally, Waters must be able to procure materials on terms that allow us to deliver good value to our necessarily limited to: bribes and kickbacks. For more information, see our Global Anti-Bribery & Anti-Corruption
customers and shareholders. Compliance Policy.
Waters maintains a supplier diversity program and evaluates our suppliers’ ESG performance. In 2021, 55% of
205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures
our direct (product-related) spend was with suppliers who had ESG reports or goals, or who publicized ESG
Waters expressly prohibits any conduct that amounts to requesting, accepting, giving, or offering anything of value
performance metrics. In addition, we spent approximately $100M in 2021 with small businesses and companies
to or from anyone to reward improper performance or obtain an unfair business advantage. Waters has clear
that met our supplier diversity requirements.
channels of communication internally to discuss matters that fall under the Global Code of Business Conduct and
We periodically engage our suppliers with business review meetings to ensure that our expectations are met, to Ethics more generally.
maintain open channels of communication, and to address any issues that may arise.
Employees may consult with their supervisor, legal, or compliance at any time to discuss concerns or report
any violations by utilizing the Waters Ethics Helpline (waters.ethicspoint.com). This helpline is available 24/7 via
204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers
telephone or web in 11 languages and is confidentially operated by a third-party vendor. Similarly, Waters maintains
Waters utilizes local suppliers at each of our facilities and works to identify component vendors located near our
an email inbox, ethics@waters.com, for questions. For more information, see our Global Anti-Bribery & Anti-
contract manufacturing partners’ plants. We believe that this approach promotes good working relationships
Corruption Compliance Policy.
with our suppliers, supports our supplier diversity programs, reduces logistical complexity, lowers costs, supports
high product quality and availability, and reduces the environmental impact of our operation and our supply
205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken
chain. However, suitable local suppliers may not always be available, and suppliers located in other regions may
Waters does not publicly disclose this information except as required by law.
be required to procure materials and components that meet our technical specifications and quality control
requirements. Waters does not publicly disclose details about specific suppliers or our spend with them except as
206: Anti-competitive Behavior
required by law.
205: Anti-corruption Waters seeks to outperform its competition fairly and honestly and expects all company parties (e.g., employees,
contractors, suppliers, and business partners) to share our commitment to fair and open competition. One of our
most valuable assets is our reputation for honesty and integrity, which all company parties are required to uphold.
Waters (including our subsidiaries and affiliates) is committed to the highest standards of integrity and ethical
Company parties must not take unfair advantage of any individual or entity through manipulation, concealment,
business conduct. Our Global Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Compliance Policy prohibits any conduct that
abuse of privileged information, misrepresentation of material facts, or any other unfair practice. For more
amounts to requesting, accepting, giving, or offering anything of value to or from anyone to reward improper
information, see Global Code of Business Conduct and Ethics.
performance or to obtain unfair business advantage. All Waters parties and third-party business partners are
expected to conduct their activities in full compliance with all applicable anti-corruption and bribery laws, including
206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices
without limitation: U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”), the UK Bribery Act (“UKBA”), the Anti-Unfair
Waters does not publicly disclose this information except as required by law.
Competition Law of the PRC (“AUCL”), and any other anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws that are in effect in the
countries in which the Company does business. All Waters employees receive annual training on this policy.
207: Taxation
205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption
No Company party or third-party business partners shall make, offer to make, or promise to make payments, or Waters has not identified taxation as a material topic for ESG reporting purposes and does not publicly disclose
give anything of value, directly or indirectly, to any third party, including without limitation any government official, tax obligations on a per-country basis except as required by law. We paid approximately $153.5M in income taxes
to assist the Company in obtaining or retaining an improper business advantage. This would include, but is not in 2021, and our effective tax rate was 14.1%. For more information, see 2021 10-K, pages 33, 58, 63, and 81–82
(“Income Taxes”).
Waters 2022 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report
Introduction ESG Solving Problems Disclosures 31
GRI 300: Environmental Topics returned to Waters are refurbished, whereupon they are re-sold, donated, used as demo units or used in one
of Waters’ in-house laboratories.
302: Energy
301: Materials
Waters’ manufacturing processes involve chemical synthesis, precision machining, surface finishing, and final
assembly activities, carried out in close coordination with scientists and engineers. Conducting these activities in-
Our products comply with applicable regulations regarding product use and safety, material composition,
house contributes to our products’ quality, capability, and performance, and supports the success of our business.
hazardous substance restrictions, and hazard communications for the territories in which they are sold. Waters
In many cases, however, they are energy-intensive activities.
continually monitors changes in the global regulatory landscape, and we conduct full assessments of all product
designs, sources, and manufacturing processes to ensure compliance. Where necessary, we update product We measure and monitor energy use on a per-facility basis to identify our largest impacts, and in turn, to
designs, sourcing, and manufacturing processes to ensure ongoing compliance. identify opportunities to reduce our energy consumption and optimize our use of renewable and low-carbon
power. We report energy use for all primary facilities as defined in our 10-K and for our largest international
301-1 Materials used by weight or volume field locations. These 25 facilities represent approximately 70% of our real estate footprint and 100% of our
Waters does not track the total weight or volume of materials used in our products and processes, except to manufacturing operations.
ensure compliance with territory-specific reporting requirements or substance-use caps and restrictions such as
the European Union Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) regulation and 302-1* Energy consumption within the organization
the European Union regulation on fluorinated greenhouse gases.
Energy use by Source (MWh) 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021
301-2 Recycled input materials used Stationary Heating Oil 1,967 1,550 0 20 0 0
70% of the steel used in Waters chromatography columns comes from recycled sources, and our newest column Combustion
Natural Gas 29,659 31,139 33,305 33,754 29,771 39,992
products use 100% recycled and/or recyclable packaging materials. We are working to convert other columns to
Diesel Backup 18 42 34 40 141 176
the next generation packaging design over time.
Vehicle Fuels Diesel 3,359 4,061 3,338 3,261 2,119 2,082
We are increasing the usage of recycled and recyclable materials in our product packaging and modifying
packaging design processes to eliminate practices (e.g., gluing together non-like materials) that would preclude Gasoline 21,000 20,051 21,583 19,499 13,887 17,221
the recycling of otherwise recyclable materials.
Indirect Energy District Heating 56 41 31 0 0 0
We are working to quantify a baseline of recycled materials in our other products so that we may increase this
Electricity 55,699 55,497 56,828 58,518 58,815 62,525
proportion over time.
Total Energy Consumption 111,758 112,381 115,119 115,092 104,733 121,996
301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials Revenue (millions USD) 2,167 2,309 2,420 2,406 2,365 2,786
Waters takes back instruments as part of our FlexUp Technology Renewal program. We also provide our
Energy/Revenue (MWh/$m) 51.6 48.7 47.6 47.8 44.3 43.8
customers with local contacts that can support them with the responsible handling and destruction of
end-of-life instruments. End-of-life instruments and components returned to Waters are dismantled and
responsibly disposed of by a third-party vendor. In some cases, products and field-replaceable subassemblies * Energy use and GHG emissions data were revised in March 2023 to reflect corrected reporting for our Taunton facility from 2016-20. Our total energy consumption
for those years is approximately 13% higher than originally reported, and our total Scope 1+2 GHG emissions are approximately 10% higher than originally reported.
We identified the historical reporting error as part of our annual internal review process, in consultation with third-party consultants.
Waters 2022 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report
Introduction ESG Solving Problems Disclosures 32
302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization We continue to make design changes that reduce the size and weight of our product packaging, and that increase
Waters does not measure energy consumption outside of our operational control, but we account for the our use of sustainable packaging materials. We estimate that packaging design changes made during the
environmental impact of relevant activities by calculating certain Scope 3 emissions, which are detailed under period covered by this report will reduce GHG emissions by more than 339 metric tons per year and eliminate
GRI 305, were calculated in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol and are included in our approximately 56,000 kilograms of material, an offset equivalent to planting approximately 570 trees.
CDP Climate response. We are also working to improve our products’ energy efficiency over time, most recently
with our Xevo™ TQ Absolute Mass Spectrometer, in order to do our part to help reduce the impact that our 303: Water and Effluents
products have on our customers’ environmental footprint.
Our use of water is primarily driven by certain water-intensive manufacturing activities and also by general
302-3 Energy intensity
facilities use, which is partly a function of on-site headcount. Our water reporting includes the largest Waters-
See GRI 303-1
owned manufacturing sites, which represent approximately 62% of our real estate footprint, and 92% of the
water consumed at all Waters-operated manufacturing sites: Milford and Taunton, Massachusetts; New Castle,
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption
Delaware; Wilmslow and Solihull, England; and Wexford, Ireland.
Our total energy consumption in 2021 was approximately 30% higher than in 2020. The increase in
energy consumption was primarily attributable to three factors: natural gas use, fleet vehicle use, and We are committed to addressing water use throughout our operations and have focused our efforts on
electricity consumption. understanding drivers of water consumption at production sites where water use is most prevalent. Water
consumption at these facilities decreased by 6% from 2020 to 2021, and our water consumption intensity per
We are working to identify opportunities to reduce our use of fossil fuels and have made major investments to
revenue dollar decreased by 21%. We will continue to seek water management efficiencies as we work to reduce
improve the resource-use efficiency of our facilities. For example, our facility in Wilmslow, England is certified to
our water use intensity over time.
BREEAM standards, our new facility in Taunton, Massachusetts is LEED certified, and our facility in Huellhorst,
Germany utilizes on-site solar panels.
303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource
We are exploring the use of on-site renewable energy in other facilities. In the meantime, and as a demonstration Water used by the company is primarily drawn from municipal water sources. Our facilities in Wilmslow, England,
of our commitment to responsible behavior, we have also doubled our use of renewable energy to reduce India and Malaysia use groundwater and/or collected rainwater.
the environmental impact the electricity we do consume. For more information see Designed for Sustainable
Manufacturing on page 16 and Environmental Impact on page 8. 303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts
Production processes in our new Taunton facility use substantially less water per dollar of inventory manufactured
302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services than the extant facility it is replacing. In addition, we have installed low-flow and water-free plumbing fixtures
Our Xevo™ TQ Absolute Mass Spectrometer consumes roughly half the energy and nitrogen, and generates throughout our headquarters and largest facility in Milford, Massachusetts. Our facilities in Taunton, Massachusetts
approximately half the heat, of other comparable instruments. This allows laboratories to consume less energy for and Wilmslow, England use “gray water” for plumbing fixtures.
power and air conditioning, lowering both cost of ownership and environmental impact.
As previously reported, our ACQUITY UPLC instruments use approximately 80% less solvent and 35% less
electricity on a per-sample basis than traditional HPLC instruments. In general, advances in liquid chromatography
technologies allow our customers to process smaller samples with less solvent, reducing the energy consumption
of our products on a per-sample basis.
Waters 2022 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report
Introduction ESG Solving Problems Disclosures 33
303-3 Water withdrawal 304: Biodiversity
303-4 Water discharge
Waters’ operations do not have significant biodiversity impact. Although we do not consider this a material topic,
303-5 Water consumption
we comply with all applicable laws and regulations, and have taken actions to protect wildlife in our community.
Water Withdrawal (Cubic Meters)
For example, a population of Common Pipistrelle bats resided in a building that formerly stood on the site now
occupied by Waters’ facility in Wilmslow, England. Waters constructed a standalone house on the grounds of the
65,020 670
2021 65,690 facility as aC ho alle bc itt aed t fR oa ri n tw heat e br ats, and maintains the structure on an ongoing basis.
69,460 737
2020 70,197 Municipal Water
In addition, we have installed a series of honeybee hives on the grounds of the Wilmslow facility. The hives are
92,374 1,153
2019 93,527
constructed from recycled shipping pallets and are managed in conjunction with Bees in Our Community, a local
79,194 286
2018 79,480 non-profit focused on increasing the bee population in and around Cheshire, England.
73,753 1,560
2017 75,313
73,025 1,734
2016 74,759 305: Emissions
Municipal Water Collected Rainwater
Since 2016, Waters has used a centralized data system to track our Scope 1 and 2 GHG. We tabulate consumption
data and assign IEA emissions factors to calculate our Scope 1 and 2 CO2 emissions. Scope 3 emissions are
Water Discharged to Sewer (Cubic Meters)
calculated in accordance with guidance from the GHG Protocol. We report emissions data for all primary
facilities as defined in our 10-K, as well as our largest international field locations. These 25 facilities represent
2021 59,919
approximately 70% of our real estate footprint and 100% of our manufacturing operations. We track data for all
2020 43,556
Primary Facilities as defined in our 10-K, as well as our largest international field locations. There were no changes
2019 65,576
to our facilities or operational footprint in 2021 that had a material impact on our GHG emissions.
2018 63,919
2017 68,598 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions
2016 64,352
305-2* Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions
Waters’ primary drivers of Scope 1 GHG in 2021 were our service fleet vehicles and the use of natural gas in our
Municipal Water Withdrawal Intensity (Cubic Meters per $M Revenue) facilities for climate control and certain manufacturing activities. Our year-over-year increase in Scope 1 emissions
was primarily attributable to the commencement of manufacturing operations at our new precision chemistry
2021 23.3 facility in Taunton, Massachusetts. We expect that this is a temporary increase that will subside as manufacturing
2020 29.4 operations at the old facility are wound down. In addition, Scope 1 emissions rose due to expanded service fleet
2019 37.4 operations and increased on-site presence in our facilities as restrictions related to the COVID-19 pandemic
were relaxed.
2018 32.7
2017 31.9 (Continued)
2016 33.7 * Energy use and GHG emissions data were revised in March 2023 to reflect corrected reporting for our Taunton facility from 2016-20. Our total energy consumption
for those years is approximately 13% higher than originally reported, and our total Scope 1+2 GHG emissions are approximately 10% higher than originally reported.
We identified the historical reporting error as part of our annual internal review process, in consultation with third-party consultants.
Waters 2022 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report
Introduction ESG Solving Problems Disclosures 34
In total, renewable and low-carbon energy accounted for 58% of our total electricity usage in 2021, and our 305-4* GHG emissions intensity
Scope 2 GHG decreased by more than 40% from 2020 levels. Waters purchases renewable and low-carbon
Scope 1+2 GHG Intensity (Metric tons CO2e per $M Revenue)
energy covering 100% of electricity at our facilities in Wexford, Ireland, Wilmslow, England, and Solihull, England.
We also utilize on-site solar power at TA Instruments’ facility in Huellhorst, Germany. In 2021, Waters purchased 2021 7.5
Green-e certified wind energy credits (RECs) for the first time, covering approximately 15% of the power
2020 10.3
consumption at our headquarters in Milford, Massachusetts, as well as 100% of the power consumption at the
2019 10.9
following facilities: Taunton, Massachusetts; New Castle, Delaware; Nixa, Missouri; Golden, Colorado; Lindon,
2018 11.0
Utah; and Eden Prairie, Minnesota.
2017 11.5
Scope 1 & 2 GHG (metric ton CO2e x 1,000) 2016 12.6
2021 13.5 7.5 21.0 Scope 2
2020 11.0 13.4 24.4 305-5 RedScuocpteio 1n of GHG emissions
Our goal of a 35% reduction in Scope 1 and 2 GHG was chosen in consideration of science-based targets (SBTs)
2019 13.4 12.9 26.3
intended to contribute to limiting global temperature rise, consistent with a 2°C climate change goal as specified in
2018 14.3 12.4 26.7
the Paris Agreement.
2017 13.2 13.3 26.5
We continue to seek initiatives to reduce our emissions and do our part to reduce the overall rise in global
2016 12.8 14.4 27.2
temperature. We have reduced combined Scope 1 and 2 emissions by approximately 14% since 2016. In 2021, we
Scope 1 Scope 2 (market-based) reduced our overall GHG by approximately 5% from 2020 through increased use of renewable energy, in the form
of Green-e certified wind energy credits (RECs) covering Scope 2 emissions from several of our manufacturing
facilities in the United States.
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions
Scope 3 GHG emissions are calculated in accordance with methods outlined by the GHG Protocol. We are Moving forward, we intend to continue increasing the proportion of energy we source from renewable and lower-
working to expand our tracking and disclosure of Scope 3 emissions over time. carbon sources. In addition, we expect to make improvements to the fuel efficiency of our owned and leased
vehicle fleets over time. We are continuing efforts to measure our Scope 3 GHG emissions and will look to expand
Scope 3 Category Metric tons CO2e these efforts in the future.
1. Purchased Goods and Services 56,491 For more information, see our most recent CDP Climate response.
3. Fuel and Energy Activities (Not Included in Scope 1 or 2) 4,884
5. Waste Generated in Operations 20
In total, renewable and low-carbon energy accounted for 58%
6. Business Travel 3,935
of our total electricity usage in 2021, and our Scope 2 GHG
7. Employee Commutes 12,750
decreased by more than 40% from 2020 levels.
TOTAL 78,080
* Energy use and GHG emissions data were revised in March 2023 to reflect corrected reporting for our Taunton facility from 2016-20. Our total energy consumption
for those years is approximately 13% higher than originally reported, and our total Scope 1+2 GHG emissions are approximately 10% higher than originally reported.
We identified the historical reporting error as part of our annual internal review process, in consultation with third-party consultants.
Waters 2022 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report
Introduction ESG Solving Problems Disclosures 35
305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) 306-1 Waste generation and significant waste-related impacts
Ozone depleting substances as classified under the Montreal Protocol do not represent a material environmental Waters primary sources of non-hazardous waste are general office waste, single-stream recycling, food waste,
impact for Waters. However, we do track their use in our operation and products. A small number of chillers sold scrap from manufacturing processes and end-of-life products, and eWaste. Our primary sources of hazardous
under the TA Instruments brand use R-22 (HCFC-22 refrigerant). We also manufacture and sell environmental waste are chemicals used in our laboratories and manufacturing processes.
reference standards that environmental laboratories use when testing for the presence of ozone-depleting
substances. In addition, certain HVAC equipment at our facilities use these refrigerants for climate control 306-2 Management of significant waste-related impacts
purposes, but the refrigerant does not escape under normal operating conditions. A small quantity of R-22 Waters works with third-party waste haulers that process waste on our behalf, utilizing single-stream recycling
refrigerant (approximately 30kg) escaped into the atmosphere from a leak at our facility in Bangalore, India services wherever such options are available. We direct our waste haulers to divert the largest possible proportion
during 2021. of non-recyclable waste from landfill, typically in the form of waste-to-energy incineration facilities, and work with
waste hauling companies to identify opportunities for expanded recycling.
306: Waste
For specialized waste disposal (e.g., scrap metal, eWaste, hazardous waste, batteries, etc.), we work with
specialized disposal companies that dispose of these materials in accordance with local regulatory requirements.
Upholding our commitment to environmental responsibility includes monitoring how much waste we create and We have limited tracking data for these types of waste but are working to develop these capabilities for
how we dispose of materials used in our manufacturing processes. We are working to decrease waste sent to future reporting.
landfills and to increase the proportion of waste being diverted to recycling.
Our waste reporting includes our six largest owned sites, which represent 62% of our real estate footprint: Milford
and Taunton, Massachusetts; New Castle, Delaware; Wilmslow and Solihull, England; and Wexford, Ireland. Many
of our leased sites are in shared facilities where facilities management companies coordinate waste disposal on We consider waste intensity per revenue dollar to be a
behalf of tenants. This limits our visibility into the disposal of waste. We are working to expand our measurement
key performance indicator and have reduced this figure by
capabilities over time.
approximately 1/3 since 2016.
We are aware that our extended environmental footprint includes waste in customer laboratories. We are taking
steps to reduce these impacts over time through packaging redesign programs. In addition, we promote circularity
by offering instrument takeback programs through our FlexUp instrument trade-in program. We also put our
customers in contact with reputable local eWaste recyclers upon request to help them comply with electronics
recycling laws. In some cases, field-serviceable spare parts may be returned to Waters facilities from customer
laboratories for refurbishment and reuse.
We believe that the best thing we can to do reduce the environmental impact of waste from our operations is
to decrease the amount of waste that we generate. We consider waste intensity per revenue dollar to be a key
performance indicator in this regard and have reduced this figure by approximately 1/3 since 2016.
Waste disposal quantities, broken down by type and provided on hauler invoices, are collated by facilities leads
around the world and inputted into a centralized data system. We also use this data to tabulate Scope 3 GHG
emissions from waste disposal.
Waters 2022 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report
Introduction ESG Solving Problems Disclosures 36
306-3 Waste generated 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations
None.
306-4 Waste diverted from disposal
306-5 Waste directed to disposal 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment
Non-Hazardous Waste from Major Sites (tons)
As part of the ongoing development of Waters’ ESG program, we are incorporating supplier environmental
2021 197 339 32 568 performancL ean , rd efi pll orting, and goals into our supplier management practices. This begins with our Supplier Quality
2020 167 343 41 551 Manual, whInicchin earrattiicounlates our expectations for suppliers’ business conduct.
Recycling
2019 221 392 54 667 We currently track the proportion of our direct spend with suppliers with sustainability goals and disclosures.
2018 176 298 189 663 We also calculate Scope 3 GHG emissions from our products’ supply chain. In 2022, we are implementing more
2017 206 321 142 669 comprehensive methods for evaluating suppliers’ ESG programs and performance.
2016 113 368 106 587
308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria
Recycling Incineration Landfill Each year, Waters assesses critical and non-critical suppliers for a variety of ESG-related risk factors, including
whether the suppliers report publicly on climate change, whether they disclose relevant data regarding climate
Non-Hazardous Waste Intensity (tons per $M revenue) impacts, and whether they set goals. In 2021, we screened over 150 suppliers, representing approximately 95%
of our direct (product-related) spend, and determined that 55% of our spend was with suppliers that met these
2021 0.20 criteria (an increase from 50% in 2020).
2020 0.23
2019 0.28
2018 0.27
2017 0.29
2016 0.27
307: Environmental Compliance
Waters maintains an ISO 14001 certified Environmental Management System (EMS) at our headquarters and
largest global manufacturing facility in Milford, MA. The EMS attests to our commitment to being good stewards
of the communities where we operate and actively protecting the environment by pursuing pollution prevention,
waste reduction, and the conservation of natural resources throughout our operations. We will continue to
prioritize environmental management by expanding our EMS to our largest manufacturing sites.
Waters 2022 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report
Introduction ESG Solving Problems Disclosures 37
GRI 400: Social Topics Our Total Rewards portfolio provides additional health, wellness, and work-life effectiveness benefits, and is
intended to help our employees achieve success at work and beyond, to realize the goals of a rewarding career, a
healthy life, and a bright future. Waters benefits specifics vary by country due to legislative and cultural differences,
but in general include inclusive programs and services for paid time off, health coverage (medical, prescription,
dental, vision, and mental health support), an employee assistance program, family and parental care leave,
401: Employment
adoption support, discounts on fitness center memberships, as well as incentive programs and tools designed to
encourage and reward healthy habits. See a list of benefits and total rewards on the Benefits and Total Rewards
Our people create the Waters’ difference. We consider our ability to attract and retain talent one of the key success page of Waters.com.
factors of business and a critical indicator of the impact of our HR programs and initiatives. Our goals are to attract
and retain the talented employees who are essential to the continued success of the company and, in hiring, to 401-3 Parental leave
achieve a balance between global consistency and local flexibility. In addition to maternity and paternity leave, Waters offers flexible work arrangements, employee and family
assistance programs, and scholarship programs for children of employees. Specific parental leave and family care
401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover policies, benefits, and eligibility criteria vary by territory.
Voluntary Turnover New Hires
403: Occupational Health and Safety
2021 11.2% 2021 1,277 Internal
502
2020 7.3% 2020 660 External An important component of Waters’ vision is our commitment to provide a safe and healthful workplace for our
249
2019 7.2% 2019 835 employees, to act responsibly to protect the environment, and to be recognized by the communities in which we
321
2018 6.8% 789 live and work as an excellent employer and corporate neighbor.
2018
714
2017 5.9% 2017 736 Our health and safety program is overseen by our Director of Health, Safety & Environment (HSE). A Global HSE
289
Leadership Steering Committee provides direction and endorsement for Waters HSE programs, while the Global
External Internal
HSE Group manages risk and establishes measures to implement and communicate program requirements.
Additionally, every Waters facility worldwide has an HSE representative to administer HSE programs and
401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees compliance at the site level. For more information, see Waters Health, Safety, and Environmental Policy.
Waters provides employees with a compensation structure that is market focused and performance based.
In 2019, we launched a multi-year review of our Total Rewards programs, including Compensation, Benefits, 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system
Recognition, and Work-life Effectiveness. As of April 2022, our headquarters (and largest manufacturing facility) in Milford, Massachusetts was certified to
the ISO 45001 Health and Safety Management standard, as were our two largest contract manufacturing partner
Our non-executive compensation strategy aims to align performance-based total compensation with our
sites. Waters is phasing in ISO 45001 safety management systems at our largest manufacturing sites, a program
business strategy and establish and maintain pay levels based on evaluation of jobs, work performance and
we expect to complete by the end of 2025.
compensation paid elsewhere in the marketplace. U.S. employees are eligible to participate in a 401(k) plan
with company matching. Waters also offers an employee stock purchase program (ESPP) to a majority of our
global employees. Our bonus, long-term incentive, and rewards-and-recognition programs emphasize our
commitment to a performance-oriented culture by ensuring that our highest performing team members are
appropriately compensated.
Waters 2022 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report
Introduction ESG Solving Problems Disclosures 38
403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation 403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and safety management system
We closely monitor safety-related data measures, including Total Recordable Incident Rate, Lost Time Incident Approximately 1,800 Waters employees (23% of our global workforce) are covered by the ISO 45001 certification
Rate, and Number of Lost Time Cases, as key indicators in our effort to achieve a zero-accident workplace. Since at our Milford, Massachusetts headquarters. Waters’ occupational health and safety programs are applicable to all
2019, Waters has utilized Health, Safety and Environmental (HSE) data management software to improve the permanent and temporary employees, contractors, and site visitors.
timeliness, accuracy, and completeness of HSE data on a global basis. Use of the software helps standardize best
practices across the enterprise and facilitates development and tracking of leading indicators. 403-9 Work-related injuries
Waters had zero work-related fatalities in 2021.
403-3 Occupational health services
Note: Data from 2016–19 are for sites in the United States only. We are expanding and standardizing our incident
See GRI 403-6.
management processes as part of our broader ISO 45001 program.
403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication on occupational health and safety
Total Recordable Incident Rate Lost Time Incident Rate
Departmental Safety Committees meet regularly to review safety issues, conduct audits, and provide employee
training. Employee feedback is taken into consideration as part of this process. Waters encourages all employees 2021 0.34 2021 0.14
to utilize our HSE management software to record near misses and “good catches,” which proactively identify and
2020 0.4 2020 0.2
correct workplace hazards.
2019 0.9 2019 0.5
2018 1.2 2018 0.4
403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety
Waters has rigorous safety protocols and requires safety training for all employees. Through online and in-person 2017 1.4 2017 0.7
training programs, we foster a safe workplace and ensure that all employees are empowered to prevent accidents 2016 1.1 2016 0.5
and injuries. Employees receive training when they are onboarded, and employees who are exposed to workplace
hazards such as compressed gases, confined spaces, biological substances, and hazardous materials also receive
Lost Time Cases
specialized safety training in accordance with regulatory requirements.
2021 11
403-6 Promotion of worker health
2020 15
In addition to the wellness benefits delineated under GRI 401, Waters also offers short- and long-term disability
2019 15
coverage, as well as life insurance coverage. We provide on-site vision screenings, personal protective equipment,
and ergonomic workstation consults for employees both in our facilities and working remotely. In addition, there is 2018 13
an on-site clinic at our headquarters that provides treatment for routine and work-related health issues, as well as 2017 21
vaccination clinics and health screenings. 2016 15
403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety impacts directly linked by
403-10 Work-related ill health
business relationships
Waters complies with occupational health requirements, including workplace monitoring and controls to minimize
See GRI 416.
workplace health hazards. Proactive ergonomic assessments of our work cells and physical operations are
completed to minimize the risk of musculoskeletal disorders. In addition, our Total Rewards portfolio provides
resources to support employees’ mental health, well-being, and work-life effectiveness.
Waters 2022 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report
Introduction ESG Solving Problems Disclosures 39
404: Training and Education 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity
At Waters, growth and development are all about continuous learning, the evolution of oneself, and the constant Our approach to Diversity, Equity & Inclusion (DEI) is designed to shift mindsets, foster inclusive behaviors, and
pursuit of knowledge that makes us better and better. We work to communicate and define the key behaviors and encourage increased representation of employees with diverse backgrounds. To ensure that our DEI programs
attributes that drive personal and organizational success and help develop all our employees as leaders. A dual benefit from experienced leadership, we hired our first director of DEI in 2021. We seek to become more
focus on the “how” as well as the “what” serves as the foundation of all our talent activities, including acquisition, representative of our communities, to create a workplace where all employees can thrive, and to build a stronger
development, performance evaluation, and rewards and recognition. and more diverse employee pipeline through community engagement and targeted philanthropy programs. For
more information, Social Impact on page 9, HBCU Partnerships on page 10, and Awards on page 12.
404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee
In 2021, Waters trained 111 managers for 4,102 hours through our Management Series new manager training 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees
program. In addition, Waters employees received approximately 137,876 hours of training through our online Details about the diversity of our workforce are shown below. For information about the diversity of our board of
eLearning system and the iLearn modules noted under GRI 404-2. In all, Waters’ 7,800 employees received directors, see 2022 Proxy, page 4.
137,876 hours of training in 2021, an average of approximately 18 hours per employee.
New Hires by Gender Global Workforce by Gender
404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs
2021 36% 64% 2021 31% 69%
Waters invests in various programs, digital platforms, and workshops that build professional and technical skills.
We have been working to enhance our digital learning opportunities and offer a global learning platform to our 2020 37% 63% 2020 31% 69%
employees, iLearn. iLearn features a curated collection of videos, podcasts, and digital and audio books that
Women Men Women Men
supports Waters employees in self-led professional development with tools on leadership, agility, and other
technical and business skills. Available in six languages plus English, iLearn can be accessed anywhere, anytime,
Women in Leadership
on any computer or mobile device. In 2021, approximately 68% of our employees took advantage of the iLearn
system, using it for more than 30,000 hours.
2021 30% Internal
26%
2020 31% External
404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews 27%
28%
95% of full-time employees received reviews in 2021. 2019
27%
26%
2018
27%
22%
2017
27%
18%
2016
25%
Sr. Director and Above
Managers below Sr. Director Level
Waters 2022 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report
Introduction ESG Solving Problems Disclosures 40
Global Workforce by Age 406: Non-discrimination
2021 2020 2019 2018
We are firmly committed to providing equal opportunity in all aspects of employment and will not tolerate any
illegal discrimination or harassment of any kind. Relationships with colleagues and business relationships with
8% 10% 8% 10% 8% 10% 8% 11% competitors, suppliers, and customers always must be conducted free of any discrimination, including based on
race, color, creed, religion, gender identity or expression, age, sex, sexual orientation, national origin, genetics,
21% 21% 22% 22% marital status, veteran status, handicap, or disability, or any other characteristic protected by law. Examples of
32% 32% 32% 31%
illegal discrimination or harassment include derogatory comments based on any of the preceding characteristics
and unwelcome sexual advances. For more information, see our Global Code of Business Conduct & Ethics.
29% 29% 29% 29%
408: Child Labor
Age Range: <20 20–30 30–40 40–50 50–60 >60
Waters takes the issue of slavery and human trafficking seriously and has a zero-tolerance approach to the issue.
We work with our suppliers to ensure that local laws regarding wages, working conditions, and working hours
U.S. Workforce by Race/Ethnicity are observed, and to ensure that child or forced labor is not used in the manufacture of our products or in the
components they contain. For more information, see Statement Regarding UK Modern Slavery Act.
2021 2020 2019 2018
1% 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor
3% 3% 3% 3%
11% 10% 10% 9%
5% 1% 5% 1% 5% 1% Waters values fair, reliable business relationships with suppliers and partners, and encourages those with whom
6% 1%
we do business to share in our vision of responsible and ethical business practices. We expect our suppliers to
adhere to all applicable laws, rules, and regulations of the countries in which they operate. It is critical that our
77% 81% 82% 83% suppliers uphold the human rights of workers and treat them with dignity and respect while ensuring a safe and
healthy working environment.
We periodically conduct global supply chain risk assessments, sometimes with the support of third-party
consultants, to explore emerging issues including human rights. When doing such assessments, we consider four
Asian Black or African American Hispanic/Latino Two or More Races White Not Specified
key factors that drive the risk of forced labor in our supply chains: sector and industry risks, product-specific risks,
geographic risks, and company-specific risks.
405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men Our expectations are communicated to suppliers as part of our supplier onboarding process and are included
Waters discloses gender pay ratios for our operating subsidiaries in the United Kingdom and France. For more in the standard terms and conditions of our purchasing contracts. As part of our ongoing supplier management
information, see 2021 UK Gender Pay Gap Report and France Gender Equality Index 2021. process, suppliers may be required to demonstrate conformance with our expectations. Waters reserves the right
to discontinue business relationships with suppliers that fail to operate in a legal, responsible, and ethical manner.
For more information, see our Statement on UK Modern Slavery Act, Statement on Conflict Minerals, SEC filing
on Conflict Minerals, and Supplier Quality Manual.
Waters 2022 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report
Introduction ESG Solving Problems Disclosures 41
410: Security Practices 415: Public Policy
Although we do not publicly comment on the specific controls we have in place, Waters has centralized policies, Waters has taken positions in industry debates and associations that are consistent with our business goals,
procedures, systems, and training measures to monitor and protect the security of our facilities, data systems, namely concerning issues in the analytical instrumentation industry, including certification boards and standard
customer information, supply chain, and employees. We also conduct due diligence to determine what risks setting organizations.
specific business partners may present. These programs are overseen by our Global Security Manager, our VP
of Internal Audit and Chief Compliance Officer, our Sr. Manager of Global Trade Compliance, and our Sr. Director 415-1 Political contributions
of Information Security. For more information, see 2021 10-K, pages 21–22 (“Risks Related to Cybersecurity In February 2022, we adopted a Political Participation Policy that prohibits direct or indirect political contributions
and Data Privacy”) and Global Code of Business Conduct & Ethics, page 5 (“Protecting Company & of any kind in support or opposition to political candidates, campaigns, political parties, ballot initiatives, or
Customer Information”). organizations that seek to influence the above. During the reporting period, Waters made no contributions of any
kind to political campaigns, political organizations, lobbyists or lobbying organizations, or other tax-exempt groups.
413: Local Communities
416: Customer Health and Safety
Our philanthropy supports organizations who are making advancements in human health and well-being, STEM
education, and diversity, equity, and inclusion. Waters’ chemistry products are documented in accordance with the Globally Harmonized System of Classification
and Labeling of Chemicals (GHS), with Safety Data Sheets (SDS) available that document each product’s physical
413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs and chemical properties, exposure hazards, safe handling and transport, cleanup instructions and first aid,
See Philanthropy, page 10. toxicology, pollution risks, and disposal considerations. Safety Data Sheets are available in 14 languages.
Waters instrumentation products go through a rigorous compliance engineering process to determine their
413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities
compliance with third-party safety requirements and regulations relating to electrical safety and electromagnetic
Waters’ operations do not have a negative impact on the communities where we operate and experienced no
interference. In addition, our instruments are designed and manufactured in compliance with regulations such
events in 2021 that would cause material harm to our local communities.
as the Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) and Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction
of Chemicals (REACH) directives, ensuring that their constituent materials do not pose harm to personnel
414: Supplier Social Assessment
involved in their assembly, service, or decommissioning. Furthermore, Waters products used in clinical laboratory
environments comply with applicable requirements in their countries of sale with regards to In Vitro Diagnostic
Waters conducts an annual assessment of our largest direct suppliers by spend each year to gauge the maturity (IVD) and Research-Use Only (RUO) products.
of their social responsibility programs. We review whether suppliers meet several criteria, including a human rights
policy, a supply chain code of conduct, a supply chain sustainability program, their MSCI ESG rating, and whether 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service categories
they provide a CMRT as part of Waters’ annual Conflict Minerals survey. All Waters products are evaluated for relevant health and safety risks and are provided with appropriate
documentation. It is expected that our products will be used in laboratory environments, by trained operators using
414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria appropriate personal protective equipment.
In 2021, we screened approximately 77% of our direct (product-related) spend against the criteria noted above.
Waters 2022 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report
Introduction ESG Solving Problems Disclosures 42
417: Marketing and Labeling
417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labeling
See GRI 416.
416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services
None.
417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service information and labeling
None.
417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications
Waters’ Global Code of Business Conduct & Ethics and Global Anti-Bribery & Anti-Corruption Compliance
Policy prohibit dishonest, unethical, and illegal behavior in all territories where the company operates or sells
products. This prohibition also extends to customer-facing activities. All employees receive mandatory training
about their responsibilities in these areas.
418: Customer Privacy
Waters Global Code of Business Conduct & Ethics requires Waters employees and business partners to preserve
the confidentiality of all non-public information they possess that has been entrusted to them by third parties,
including customers. In addition, Waters has governance programs in place to manage our responsibilities under
the European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation. For more information, see 2021 10-K, pages 21–22
(“Risks Related to Cybersecurity and Data Privacy”).
Waters 2022 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report
Introduction ESG Solving Problems Disclosures 43
SASB INDEX HC-MS-250a.4 Number of FDA enforcement actions taken in response to violations of current Good
Manufacturing Practices (cGMP), by type
Medical Equipment and Supplies
No FDA enforcement actions were taken against Waters in 2021 in response to violations of cGMP.
Ethical Marketing
Affordability and Pricing
HC-MS-270a.1 Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with false
marketing claims
HC-MS-240a.1 Ratio of weighted average rate of net price increases (for all products) to the annual increase
Waters had no monetary losses in 2021 due to legal proceedings associated with false marketing claims.
in the U.S. Consumer Price Index
This metric is not relevant for Waters’ business model, and we do not consider it in our practices. However, Waters
HC-MS-270a.2 Description of code of ethics governing promotion of off-label use of products
follows a rigorous process and engages relevant stakeholders to set prices. Some of the criteria we use when
Waters’ Global Code of Business Conduct & Ethics and Global Anti-Bribery & Anti-Corruption Compliance
setting prices include, but are not limited to: product-specific attributes (e.g., lifecycle, innovation), value proposition
Policy prohibit dishonest, unethical and illegal behavior in all territories where the company operates or sells
of Waters’ portfolio, customer feedback, and internal metrics (e.g., revenue and price realization).
products. This prohibition also extends to customer-facing activities. Similarly, our Global Import and Export
policies mandate risk-based end-use checks to ensure that our products are used in the prescribed manner and in
HC-MS-240a.2 Description of how price information for each product is disclosed to customers or to
compliance with applicable U.S. and market-country laws. All employees receive mandatory, annual training about
their agents
their responsibilities in these areas.
Waters sells products through multiple channels including direct sales to end customers, distributors, dealers, and
e-commerce channels. For products for which pricing data is public, Waters ensures transparency and accuracy of
Product Design and Lifecycle Management
pricing through electronic quotes, e-catalog and Waters online ordering systems.
Product Safety
HC-MS-410a.1 Discussion of process to assess and manage environmental and human health
considerations associated with chemicals in products, and meet demand for sustainable products
Our products comply with applicable regulations regarding product use and safety, material composition,
HC-MS-250a.1 Number of recalls issued, total units recalled
hazardous substance restrictions, and hazard communications for the territories in which they are sold. Waters
Waters issued no product recalls in 2021.
continually monitors changes in the global regulatory landscape, and where necessary, updates product designs,
sourcing, and manufacturing processes to ensure ongoing compliance. Through our supplier management
HC-MS-250a.2 List of products listed in the FDA’s MedWatch Safety Alerts for Human Medical
practices and with our Supplier Quality Manual, we work to ensure that our suppliers are operating in support of
Products database these objectives. For more information, see HC-MS-430a.3 on page 44.
No Waters products were listed in the FDA’s MedWatch Safety Alerts for Human Medical Products Database in 2021.
HC-MS-410a.2 Total amount of products accepted for takeback and reused, recycled, or donated, broken
HC-MS-250a.3 Number of fatalities related to products as reported in the FDA Manufacturer and User
down by: (1) devices and equipment and (2) supplies
Facility Device Experience Waters does not currently track this data; we are working to develop this capability on an enterprise-wide basis.
No fatalities have occurred in relation to Waters products as reported to MAUDE. However, Waters takes back instruments as part of our FlexUp Technology Renewal program. We also provide our
Waters 2022 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report
Introduction ESG Solving Problems Disclosures 44
customers with local contacts that can support them with the responsible handling and destruction of end-of-life • Our Conflict Minerals program, conducted in accordance with OECD guidance, conducts an annual supply
instruments. End-of-life instruments and components returned to Waters are dismantled and responsibly disposed chain survey, the results of which are filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in accordance
of by a third-party vendor. In some cases, products returned to Waters are refurbished, whereupon they are re- with the Dodd-Frank requirements.
sold, donated, used as demo units, or used in one of Waters’ in-house laboratories.
• We carry out substance volume tracking, registration, and reporting as required by the countries where we sell
our products.
Supply Chain Management
• Hazard communications for our chemistry products are conducted in accordance with the requirements of the
Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals (GHS).
HC-MS-430a.1 Percentage of (1) entity’s facilities and (2) Tier I suppliers’ facilities participating in third-party
The Product Stewardship team works with our logistics and manufacturing organizations to ensure that
audit programs for manufacturing and product quality
products are classified as Dangerous Goods as appropriate (based on the United Nations Recommendations
Audits of Waters: Voluntary compliance audits, International Organization for Standardization (ISO) certifications,
on the Transport of Dangerous Goods), and that packaging, shipping and handling processes are carried out in
Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI)
accordance with International Air Transport Association (IATA) requirements and local laws.
Audits of Suppliers: Waters conducts its own audits of critical suppliers. Quality engineers vary audit
subject matter based on relevance to suppliers’ business. Suppliers must undergo audits to maintain their Business Ethics
ISO certifications.
HC-MS-430a.2 Description of efforts to maintain traceability within the distribution chain HC-MS-510a.1 Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with bribery
All Waters products have a unique part number. All instruments, and some spare parts carry barcoded labels or corruption
indicating serial number, date of manufacture, country/plant of origin and compliance with applicable regulatory Waters does not publicly discuss issues relating to anti-bribery and anti-corruption. Our Global Anti-Bribery &
requirements. Similar labeling exists for columns and chemistry products, which are typically lot-controlled, with Anti-Corruption Compliance Policy complements our Global Code of Business Conduct & Ethics and Global
certificates of analysis available upon request. Waters also maintains device history records and keeps records of Trade Compliance program, and we train all employees about their responsibilities in these areas.
which serialized products have been sold to which customers.
HC-MS-510a.2 Description of code of ethics governing interactions with health care professionals
Our Global Trade Compliance team carries out due diligence to ensure that the distribution of Waters products
Our Global Anti-Bribery & Anti-Corruption Compliance Policy prohibits the making of direct or indirect offers,
complies with U.S. import and export controls. Our Trade Compliance team also works with our Regulatory Affairs
promises or payments of anything of value to third parties, including healthcare professionals, to obtain business
and distribution teams to ensure that In Vitro Diagnostic (IVD) products are sold to customers in territories where
advantage. In addition, our Global Code of Business Conduct & Ethics prohibits dishonest, unethical, and illegal
appropriate registrations and licensing are in place.
behavior in all territories where the company operates or sells products. All employees receive mandatory training
about their responsibilities in these areas.
HC-MS-430a.3 Description of the management of risks associated with the use of critical materials
Waters’ Product Stewardship team manages these risks as noted below:
Activity Metrics
• We conduct full assessment of all product designs, sources and manufacturing processes to ensure compliance
with restricted substance regulations, such as the Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) Directive,
Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH), Substances of Concern In HC-MS-000.A Number of units sold by product category
Products (SCIP), and the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA). We request the full material composition for Waters does not disclose sales volume by number of units sold.
every product component we purchase from a third party.
Waters 2022 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report
Waters Corporation
34 Maple Street
Milford, MA 01757
T: 1-508-478-2000
F: 1-508-872-1990
waters.com
© 2022 Waters Corporation. Waters, The
Science of What’s Possible are trademarks
of Waters Corporation.
moc.nosidda
yb
ngiseD
