Unlocking the
Potential of Science
by Solving Problems
That Matter
2023 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report
Contents
A Message from Dr. Udit Batra 4
About Waters 5
Our Approach to ESG 7
Solving Problems that Matter 11
Environment 16
Social Impact 23
Governance 38
Appendix 48
Waters is committed to
unlocking the potential
to improve the world in
everything we do.
| 2023 ESG Report 3
A Message from
Dr. Udit Batra
At Waters, we are driven to solve some of the most difficult chemical manufacturing facility in the state. We are also designing
problems in the world, ensuring we leave the world better than we new instruments to be more energy efficient and to have a smaller
found it. I am proud of the progress we have made in caring for our footprint. Waters Xevo TQ Absolute Mass Spectrometer consumes
people, our communities, and the planet, and as always, we are roughly half the energy and nitrogen and generates half the heat,
committed to constantly striving to be better and to do more. reducing the environmental impact of our customers’ labs.
Solving difficult problems globally requires diverse teams and Lastly, we remain committed to ongoing governance and effective
an inclusive environment where individual voices are heard and oversight. At Waters, we continuously engage with our Board
perspectives are valued. To cultivate this culture, we create programs on enterprise risks to the business, and we are advancing our
and initiatives that help us become more representative of the society disclosures. For the first time, this year’s report contains our
in which we live. Since 2022, our Waters Student Academy program Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
and curriculum have reached over 300 students, many of whom are communicating our risk management and progress.
from underrepresented communities. Our global internship program
I am incredibly proud of our employees for their hard work and
included over 150 undergraduate and graduate students from around DR. UDIT BATRA
dedication to supporting our sustainability initiatives. I am confident
the world, of which 45% were women. At Waters, we have also
that together, we will leave the world better than we found it. President & Chief
increased the share of women who are Senior Directors and above to
Executive Officer
34%, a 12-percentage point increase since 2017. Sincerely,
We always strive to give more than we take from our environment.
We have cut our Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 27% since 2016,
making strong progress on our goal to reduce emissions by
35% by 2025. We have increased our renewable energy use
and achieved approximately 77% of our electricity sourced from
renewable and/or low-carbon sources in 2022. Our new Precision Dr. Udit Batra
Manufacturing Facility in Taunton, Massachusetts was the first President & Chief Executive Officer
Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) Certified Waters Corporation
| 2023 ESG Report 4
Mesage from About Our Approach Solving Problems Environment Social Impact Governance Appendix
Dr. Udit Batra Waters to ESG that Matter
About Waters Corporation, a global leader in analytical instruments, About This Report
consumables, and software, has pioneered innovations in
This report highlights Waters Corporation’s commitment
chromatography, mass spectrometry, and thermal analysis
to advancing sustainability at our organization and for our
serving the life, materials, and food sciences for more than
Waters 60 years. stakeholders. Unless otherwise stated, this report covers Waters™
performance in 2022. This report reflects feedback received from
Whether it’s discovering new pharmaceuticals, ensuring the our customers, employees, investors, and other key stakeholders.
safety of the world’s food and water supplies, or the quality We report using the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board
of products used by millions of people every day, we are (SASB), Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures
constantly working with our thousands of customers to solve (TCFD), and Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) standards.
problems that matter.
HEADQUARTERED IN 14 MANUFACTURING OPERATING DIRECTLY
MILFORD, MA FACILITIES IN MORE THAN 35
COUNTRIES WORLDWIDE
APPROXIMATELY $3.0B IN REVENUE
8,000 EMPLOYEES IN 2022
For more information on our locations, strategy, and financial results, visit Waters.com and read our latest Annual Report and Proxy Statement.
| 2023 ESG Report 5
Mesage from About Our Approach Solving Problems Environment Social Impact Governance Appendix
Dr. Udit Batra Waters to ESG that Matter
OUR MARKETS
59% 31%
Pharma/Clinical Industrial &
Applied
10%
Academic &
Government
Pharma/Clinical Industrial & Applied
Pharma: Late-stage development Food and Environment: Testing
and QA/QC applications linked to ensure safety of food, water, and
to global manufacturing volume; environmental health (including
growth in new small molecules, per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances
biologics and novel modalities; (PFAS) testing), population growth
outsourcing
Materials: Battery testing;
Clinical: Early disease detection; sustainable polymers
volume of specialized multiplex
testing Academic & Government
Government funding, biomedical research
| 2023 ESG Report 6
Mesage from About Our Approach Solving Problems Environment Social Impact Governance Appendix
Dr. Udit Batra Waters to ESG that Matter
OUR APPROACH TO ESG
We believe
sustainable thinking
inspires innovation
and excellence
| 2023 ESG Report 7
Mesage from About Our Approach Solving Problems Environment Social Impact Governance Appendix
Dr. Udit Batra Waters to ESG that Matter
We believe that a sustainability mindset is part of
everyone’s job and strive to integrate sustainable
thinking and practice into our strategy, operations,
and products to help inspire innovation and
contribute to operational excellence.
Our guiding principle is to leave the world better
than we found it and our ESG strategy is grounded
in this principle. It informs everything from how we
think about our energy use or packaging materials
to how we support and develop our employees
and give back to our local and global community.
Our ESG priorities are based on a materiality
assessment most recently updated in 2021. This
assessment was guided by frameworks and
initiatives, including SASB and GRI. We gathered
input from employees, customers, investors,
and suppliers and involved a third party, who
assessed and verified the results, as well as
provided ranking according to a materiality matrix.
Senior management then reviewed the results
and helped refine and focus our approach to ESG
and sustainability topics. We expect to conduct
further materiality analysis in future years on an
as-needed basis.
| 2023 ESG Report 8
Mesage from About Our Approach Solving Problems Environment Social Impact Governance Appendix
Dr. Udit Batra Waters to ESG that Matter
OUR GOALS AND PERFORMANCE
PILLARS GOALS 2022 PROGRESS
ENVIRONMENT • Reduce GHG emissions by 35% by • 27% decrease in Scope 1 & 2 emissions since 2016
2025 from a 2016 baseline
• Approximately 33% increase in renewable energy use since 2021 with
• Reduce waste to landfill by 50% by approximately 77% of our electricity coming from renewable and/or low-
We are committed to
2025 from 2019 baseline; zero waste carbon sources as of December 31, 2022
reducing our most significant
to landfill by 2030
environmental impacts.
• 8.5% reduction in non-hazardous waste since 2016
• Decrease water use intensity by 2025
• 90% waste diverted from landfill in 2022
from 2019 baseline
• 25% reduction in water use intensity below our 2019 baseline
SOCIAL • Increase % of women in • Increased to 34% in 2022 the global number of women at the Senior Director
leadership (YOY) level and above, a 12-percentage point increase from 2017
We are committed to becoming • Increase % of Black and • 23% of our U.S. workforce is racially and/or ethnically diverse, with increases
more representative of the Latinx employees (YOY) in both our Black and Latinx populations since 2021
society we live in.
• Increase number of students • Brought Waters Student Academy (WSA) curriculum to schools and
exposed to, and Waters volunteers nonprofits, educating over 300 students since 2022; Increased number of
engaged in, STEM education in the WSA summer interns from 15 in 2022 to 36 in 2023
community (YOY)
GOVERNANCE • Have active Board oversight of • Sustained and robust engagement with the Board on ERM issues
enterprise risk management
• Continued global delivery of policies and training on core ethics and
We are committed to enhancing • Deliver robust ethics and compliance topics
long-term stakeholder value compliance program
• Included TCFD disclosure in 2023 ESG Report
with good governance and
• Provide disclosures in accordance
effective oversight.
with, SASB, TCFD, and GRI
| 2023 ESG Report 9
Mesage from About Our Approach Solving Problems Environment Social Impact Governance Appendix
Dr. Udit Batra Waters to ESG that Matter
Waters ESG Materiality Topics and Alignment with UN Awards
Sustainable Development Goals
We are proud to be recognized by many influential organizations
Waters recognizes the importance of the United Nations 2030 as industry leaders making critical advancements that benefit
Agenda for Sustainable Development and aims to support its relevant our customers, employees, and society. See our Awards page
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) through our focus on leaving the on Waters.com for more information.
world better than we found it. We have aligned our sustainability pillars
and material topics to the relevant goals.
ENVIRONMENT 2023 RECEIVED TO DATE* 2022
• GHG Emissions and Energy • EcoVadis Silver Medal (Top 25 percent) • Newsweek: America’s Most Responsible Companies 2022
• Water Management • Newsweek: America’s Most Responsible • Barron’s 100 Most Sustainable Companies 2022
Companies 2023
• Waste Management • Human Rights Campaign: “Best Place to Work for
• Barron’s 100 Most Sustainable Companies LGBTQ+ Equality” Corporate Equality Index 2022
• Sustainable Supply Chain Management
• Fortune Modern Board 25: Waters Named to • Dow Jones Corporate Sustainability Index 2022
• Environmental Impact of Products
Top 25
• Forbes: The World’s Top Female-Friendly Companies
• Forbes Global 2000
• MassEcon Economic Impact Award
SOCIAL • U.S. News and World Report, Best Companies
• Global Health & Pharma BioTech Awards
to Work For 2023-2024
• Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion • Worcester Business Journal: Central Mass
• USA Today: America’s Climate Leaders 2023
Manufacturing Awards
• STEM Education
• Eos Foundation’s Women’s Power Gap
• The Medicine Maker Innovation Awards
• Philanthropy
• 2023 Biobase New Leaf Award - China
• SelectScience: Choice Awards
• Wiley Analytical Science Award
GOVERNANCE • Scandinavian Business Awards 2022
• Compliance and Ethics
• Customer Data Privacy
• Information Security
*As of publishing of this report
| 2023 ESG Report 10
Mesage from About Our Approach Solving Problems Environment Social Impact Governance Appendix
Dr. Udit Batra Waters to ESG that Matter
SOLVING PROBLEMS THAT MATTER
At our core, Waters
uses science to
improve human health
and well-being.
|| 22002233 EESSGG RReeppoorrtt 11
Mesage from About Our Approach Solving Problems Environment Social Impact Governance Appendix
Dr. Udit Batra Waters to ESG that Matter
Our business strategy is fundamentally
aligned with helping people live healthier,
safer lives. We make sure medicines and
vaccines are safe, our food and water
is pure, our car batteries do not catch
fire, and the materials used in products
contribute to a sustainable future. We do
this through continuing to strengthen our
relationships with our customers, who
trust our simple, yet powerful, analytical
instruments and informatics to produce
compliant data for regulators.
| 2023 ESG Report 12
Mesage from About Our Approach Solving Problems Environment Social Impact Governance Appendix
Dr. Udit Batra Waters to ESG that Matter
Testing:
Waters analytical technology and software provides the
sensitivity and specificity needed to confidently screen and
accurately measure PFAS compounds in a variety of samples,
such as water, air, soil, food, and consumer products.
Waters is focused on technology including:
• Sample preparation
• Liquid chromatography instruments
• Separation columns
• Tandem quadrupole mass spectrometry
• Quadrupole time of flight mass spectrometry
The advanced sensitivity of our XEVO™ TQ Absolute mass
spectrometer and ease of deployment delivers quick, highly
accurate results.
Accreditation:
Waters ERA™ portfolio is an established leader in the
environmental testing accreditation market. Waters supports
regulatory reporting to government agencies by building out
programs for proficiency testing along with certified reference
materials that are critical for l aboratories to gain PFAS testing
CASE STUDY Waters ofers specialized equipment and services to help
accreditation.
our customers detect PFAS substances, which can have
Detecting and Removing
concerning efects on human health. Frequently referred to as
“Forever Chemicals” From
“forever chemicals,” they have been found in drinking water, the
Our Environment environment, and our food. It is estimated that 97% of the U.S. 1 Lewis RC, Johns LE, Meeker JD. 2015. Serum Biomarkers of Exposure to Perfluoroalkyl Substances
in Relation to Serum Testosterone and Measures of Thyroid Function among Adults and Adolescents
population has PFAS in their blood,1 and it has been shown that from NHANES 2011–2012. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 12(6): 6098–6114
2 National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine. 2022. Guidance on PFAS Exposure,
certain PFAS compounds can lead to negative impacts including Testing, and Clinical Follow-Up. Washington, DC: The National Academies Press. https://doi.
org/10.17226/26156
decreased antibody response and increased risk of kidney cancer.2
| 2023 ESG Report 13
Mesage from About Our Approach Solving Problems Environment Social Impact Governance Appendix
Dr. Udit Batra Waters to ESG that Matter
CASE STUDY
Revolutionizing Early Detection of
Breast Cancer from Fingertip Smears
Waters MALDI MS detection and artificial intelligence shows
potential to be used as a non-invasive method for the early
detection of breast cancer from fingertip smears, according to DESI MALDI
research conducted by Shefield Hallam University’s Centre IMAGING IMAGING
for Mass Spectrometry Imaging.1 Breast cancer diagnosis is
Full Spectrum
currently made through mammography and confirmed by core
Molecular Imaging
needle biopsy, which can be invasive and painful. The ability
to confirm the diagnosis non-invasively could prevent patients
from undergoing these painful tests, as well as contribute to
saving lives due to early intervention.
Cutting-Edge Cancer Screening:
Waters Mass Spectrometry Imaging (MSI) instrumentation
has the potential to serve as the foundation of a novel cancer-
screening method, according to a recently published proof-
of-concept study by Professor Simona Francese. Waters MSI
equipment may be especially useful to women below 40 years
of age, for whom a tissue diagnosis may be challenging.
Non-Invasive Testing Opportunities in Other Medical
SYNAPTTM XS Mass
Research Fields:
Spectrometer
Researchers have been using Waters technology to provide
new insights into their work, including in the investigation of
ocular disease and unravelling the mysteries of Long COVID.
1 Russo, C., Wyld, L., Da Costa Aubreu, M., Bury, C. S., Heaton, C., Cole, L. M., & Francese, S. (2023). Non-invasive screening of breast cancer from fingertip smears-a proof of concept
study. Scientific reports, 13(1), 1868. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-023-29036-7
| 2023 ESG Report 14
Mesage from About Our Approach Solving Problems Environment Social Impact Governance Appendix
Dr. Udit Batra Waters to ESG that Matter
CASE STUDY
Improving Efficiency for Battery Manufacturing
Waters is developing new ways to improve the eficiency and Dry battery electrode (DBE) processing is next
safety of batteries. on the battery industry development front to
eliminate the use of solvent and reduce cost of
As the world adopts more electric vehicles and renewable
manufacturing. The challenges of converting powder
energy with backup storage, it is important that the lithium-
into thin films requires understanding the adhesive
ion batteries that these utilize deliver the necessary
mechanisms, dry mixing, and scaling-up processes.
consistently high level of performance and safety.
Our powder rheology solution measures powder
cohesive properties, yield strength, flowability, and
Electrode manufacturing is a critical part in the battery.
compressibility, which provides insights into powder
Incoming material quantification and slurry characterization
processing that can aid in overall manufacturing
help to improve manufacturing efficiency. It involves mixing
efficiency and waste reduction.
active materials, binder, and conductive additive into a slurry
(materials mixed in an organic solvent), then coating and
Waters continually supports researchers developing
drying it on the current collector. Rheological evaluation of
novel battery electrodes. Improving manufacturing
battery slurries is one of the best techniques for evaluating
processing conditions supports producing uniform
raw materials, slurry stability, and processability when
electrodes with the correct electrical performance.
optimizing the electrode manufacturing process.
| 2023 ESG Report 15
Mesage from About Our Approach Solving Problems Environment Social Impact Governance Appendix
Dr. Udit Batra Waters to ESG that Matter
ENVIRONMENT
Reducing our
environmental
impacts
| 2023 ESG Report 16
Mesage from About Our Approach Solving Problems Environment Social Impact Governance Appendix
Dr. Udit Batra Waters to ESG that Matter
Waters is committed to understanding and
reducing our largest environmental impacts.
Through company-wide strategic analysis
ENVIRONMENT
and facilities-level initiatives, we are making
progress on our goals to reduce our resource
usage and emissions across our value chain.
ENVIRONMENTAL GOALS
Reduce GHG emissions 35% by 2025
from a 2016 baseline
Reduce waste to landfill 50% by 2025
from a 2019 baseline and zero waste to
landfill by 2030
Decrease water use intensity by 2025
from a 2019 baseline
| 2023 ESG Report 17
Mesage from About Our Approach Solving Problems Environment Social Impact Governance Appendix
Dr. Udit Batra Waters to ESG that Matter
Advancing Product Sustainability
We recognize the importance of designing our products to be For product manufacturing, we seek to use more sustainable
more eficient. Focused on product use energy consumption materials. For example, our newest column products use
and greenhouse gas emissions, we seek to understand and 100% recycled and/or recyclable packaging materials.
consider the use phase impact as we recognize this is an
At the end of the products’ life, Waters takes back instruments
important consideration for our customers.
as part of our FlexUp™ Technology Renewal program.
We can also provide our customers with local contacts
that can support them with the responsible handling and
Examples of our products supporting customer sustainability destruction of end-of-life instruments. End-of-life instruments
goals include: and components returned to Waters are dismantled and
responsibly recycled and/or disposed of by a third-party
• Xevo TQ Absolute Mass Spectrometer consumes roughly half the energy and
vendor. In some cases, products and field-replaceable
nitrogen, and generates approximately half the heat, of other comparable
instruments. This allows laboratories to consume less energy for power and subassemblies returned to Waters are refurbished,
air conditioning, lowering both cost of ownership and environmental impact. whereupon they are resold, donated, used as demo units,
or used in one of Waters in-house laboratories.
• ACQUITY™ UPLC™ instruments use approximately 80% less solvent and 35%
less electricity on a per-sample basis than traditional HPLC instruments.
In general, advances in liquid chromatography technologies allow our
Reducing Packaging Materials
customers to process smaller samples with less solvent, reducing the energy
consumption of our products on a per-sample basis.
We continue to make design changes that reduce the size and
• The Alliance™ iS HPLC system reduces common user errors by up to
weight of our product packaging, as well as to increase our
40% based on our internal testing. This reduces the amount of rework in
use of sustainable packaging materials. Through redesigning
laboratories, resulting in a dramatic reduction in solvent usage and
power usage. our packing, we are reducing shipping weight and increasing
the number of units that can fit in a shipping container,
• At our TA Instruments™ division, we have implemented a lifecycle assessment
requirement during the design stage of new products to assess their which both saves money and avoids related emissions. We
potential environmental impact. have taken steps to modify packaging design processes
to eliminate practices that would preclude the recycling of
otherwise recyclable materials, such as gluing together non-
like materials.
| 2023 ESG Report 18
Mesage from About Our Approach Solving Problems Environment Social Impact Governance Appendix
Dr. Udit Batra Waters to ESG that Matter
Environmental Management
Waters is committed to the success of our Environmental To ensure a successful implementation of a reliable and
Management System and has established programs to robust Environmental Management System and policy,
minimize our operational environmental footprint and to we provide job-specific environmental compliance and
comply with environmental regulations. Our environmental awareness training to relevant employees on issues such as
management practices cover production facilities, product proper materials handling and disposal and understanding
design, product manufacturing, services rendered, waste the impacts of work activities on the environment. To
management, and informs our logistical operations and communicate on our environmental progress internally and
relationships with third-party suppliers, service providers, externally, we publish our annual ESG report.
contractors, and business partners. Waters executive
Waters maintains a structured, risk-based health, safety, and
management team has responsibility for the administration
environment compliance audit program. As part of our ISO
and implementation of our environmental management policy,
14001 certification process, relevant facilities undertake an
including ensuring compliance with relevant environmental
independent external audit. Additionally, we conduct internal
laws, training employees, setting targets and objectives, and
audits and verifications of facilities with our own internal
improving overall environmental performance over time.
specialists. If an issue is identified, we have a corrective-
Waters maintains ISO 14001 Environmental Management actions process to identify the cause and to implement
System (EMS) certification at four of our manufacturing lessons learned to achieve continuous improvement.
facilities: Milford, Massachusetts (our headquarters and
Although we have not identified biodiversity as a material
largest facility); Taunton, Massachusetts; Wexford, Ireland;
issue for our company, we take action to support local flora
and Wilmslow, U.K. The EMS sets forth our commitment to
and fauna. For example, a population of Common Pipistrelle
being good stewards of the communities where we operate
bats resided in a building that formerly stood on the site
and to actively protecting the environment by pursuing
now occupied by Waters facility in Wilmslow, U.K. Waters
pollution prevention, waste reduction, and the conservation
constructed a standalone house on the grounds of the facility
of natural resources throughout our operations.
as a habitat for the bats and maintains the structure on an
ongoing basis.
| 2023 ESG Report 19
Mesage from About Our Approach Solving Problems Environment Social Impact Governance Appendix
Dr. Udit Batra Waters to ESG that Matter
Energy Use and Greenhouse ENERGY USE BY SOURCE (MWH)
Gas Emissions
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022
Reducing energy use and greenhouse gas emissions are a Heating Oil 1,967 1,550 0 20 0 0 0
priority for our sustainability program. We have cut our GHG Stationary Combustion Natural Gas 29,659 31,139 33,305 33,754 29,771 39,992 38,489
emissions 27% since 2016, making strong progress on our
Diesel Backup 18 42 34 40 141 176 19
goal to reduce emissions 35% by 2025. Our Scope 1 and
Diesel 3,359 4,061 3,338 3,261 2,119 2,082 1,201
2 reduction goal was chosen in consideration of science-
Vehicle Fuels
based targets (SBTs) intended to contribute to limiting global Gasoline 21,000 20,051 21,583 19,499 13,887 17,221 20,440
temperature rise, consistent with a 2°C climate change District Heating 56 41 31 0 0 0 0
Indirect Energy
goal as specified in the Paris Agreement. We are currently
Electricity 55,699 55,497 56,828 58,518 58,815 62,525 63,733
exploring a 1.5°C SBT goal.
Total Energy Consumption 111,758 112,381 115,119 115,092 104,733 121,996 123,882
Our roadmap to reduce our emissions includes: Revenue (millions USD) 2,167 2,309 2,420 2,406 2,365 2,786 2,972
Energy/Revenue (MWh/$m) 51.6 48.7 47.6 47.8 44.3 43.8 41.7
• Renewable energy – We are procuring renewable energy certificates
(RECs) and investigating opportunities to install renewable energy, such
Note: We report emissions data for all primary facilities as defined in our 10-K, as well as our largest international field locations. These 25 facilities represent approximately 70% of our
as solar panels. Approximately 77% of our electricity use is covered by real estate footprint and 100% of our manufacturing operations. As a result, the quantitative environmental indicators provided in this report, including those provided above, have an
RECs; our facility in Huellhorst, Germany, utilizes on-site solar panels. 80%+ coverage of our business operations.
• Electric and hybrid fleet vehicles – Starting with our EMEA service fleet,
SCOPE 3
we are replacing gas-powered vehicles as current leases expire. At the
end of 2022, approximately 40% of our EMEA fleet was comprised of
Scope 3 Category Metric tons COe
battery electric vehicles or plug-in hybrid electric vehicles. We anticipate 2
that by the end of 2023 60% of our EMEA vehicles will be fully electric or 1.Purchased Goods and Services 44,000
hybrid, and by the end of 2025, we expect that 95% will be fully electric
or hybrid. 3.Fuel and Energy Activities (Not Included in Scope 1 or 2) 4,871
• Operational and facilities efficiency – We seek opportunities to 5.Waste Generated in Operations 190
reduce our energy use and have made major investments to improve
6.Business Travel 7,961
the resource-use eficiency of our facilities. For example, our facility
in Wilmslow, U.K., achieved a BREEAM rating of Very Good, and our 7.Employee Commutes 12,750
new manufacturing site being built at Longbridge, U.K., is expected to
also achieve a BREEAM rating of Very Good. Our facility in Taunton, TOTAL 69,772
Massachusetts, is LEED certified and was the first LEED-certified
chemical manufacturing facility in Massachusetts and among a small
number of LEED-certified industrial manufacturing projects in the U.S.
| 2023 ESG Report 20
Mesage from About Our Approach Solving Problems Environment Social Impact Governance Appendix
Dr. Udit Batra Waters to ESG that Matter
Certain HVAC equipment at our facilities use refrigerants Waste Management and Recycling Water Use and Effluents
for climate control purposes, but the refrigerant does not
escape under normal operating conditions. Additionally, a Waters is committed to monitoring, reducing, and responsibly We are committed to understanding and reducing our water
small number of chillers sold by our TA Instruments division disposing of waste, including hazardous waste. We actively use. Water consumption is driven by manufacturing activities
use R-22 (HCFC-22 refrigerant). We also manufacture and work to decrease waste sent to landfills and to increase waste and general facilities use. Water used by the company is
sell environmental reference standards that environmental diverted to recycling. primarily drawn from municipal water sources; we have
laboratories use when testing for the presence of ozone- facilities in England, India, and Malaysia that use groundwater
Waters primary sources of non-hazardous waste are general
depleting substances. and/or collected rainwater.
office waste, single-stream recycling, food waste, scrap
We estimate certain indirect Scope 3 GHG emissions, which from manufacturing processes and end-of-life products, Through more efficient equipment and processes, our
are calculated in accordance with methods outlined by the and e-waste. Our primary sources of hazardous waste Taunton, Massachusetts, facility uses substantially less
GHG Protocol. We are working to expand our tracking and are chemicals used in our laboratories and manufacturing water per dollar of inventory manufactured than the facility it
disclosure of Scope 3 emissions over time. processes. Initiatives to reduce hazardous waste include a replaced. In addition, we have installed low-flow and water-
new on-site hazardous waste treatment system in Taunton free plumbing fixtures throughout our headquarters and
that will enable recovery of organic solvents and reduce the largest facility in Milford, Massachusetts. Our facilities in
amount of organic and aqueous waste that is shipped offsite Taunton and Wilmslow use “gray water” for plumbing fixtures.
by 50%.
| 2023 ESG Report 21
Mesage from About Our Approach Solving Problems Environment Social Impact Governance Appendix
Dr. Udit Batra Waters to ESG that Matter
SCOPE 1+2 GHG: WATER WITHDRAWAL MUNICIPAL WATER WITHDRAWAL INTENSITY
METRIC TONS CO E X1000 (CUBIC METERS) (CUBIC METERS PER $M REVENUE)
2
27.2 26.5 26.7 26.3 93,527 37.4
24.4 1,153 84,159 33.7 31.9 32.7
14.4 13.3 12.4 12.9 21.0 19.9 74,759 1,73475,313 1,56079,480 286 70,197 73765,690 757 29.4 23.3 28.1
13.4 4.3 670
7.5
92,374
79,194 83,402
73,025 73,753 69,460 65,020
12.8 13.2 14.3 13.4 13.5 15.6
11.0
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022
Scope 1 Scope 2 Municipal Water Collected Rainwater
NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE FROM MAJOR WATER DISCHARGED TO SEWER NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE INTENSITY
SITES (METRIC TONS) (METRIC TONS PER $M REVENUE)
669 663 667 64,352 68,598 63,919 65,576 0.27 0.29 0.27 0.28
587 142 54 551 568 537 59,919 0.23
106 189 41 32 0.20
52 43,556 45,015 0.18
392
321 339
298 343 300
368
65,020
206 176 221 167 197 185
113
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022
Recycling Incineration Landfill
Note: Our waste reporting includes our six largest owned sites, which represent 62% of our real
estate footprint: Milford and Taunton, Massachusetts; New Castle, Delaware; Wilmslow and
Solihull, U.K.; and Wexford, Ireland. Many of our leased sites are in shared facilities where facilities Note: Our water reporting includes the largest Waters owned manufacturing sites, which represent
management companies coordinate waste disposal on behalf of tenants. This limits our visibility into approximately 62% of our real estate footprint, and 92% of the water consumed at all Waters-
the disposal of waste. We are working to expand our measurement capabilities over time. operated manufacturing sites.
| 2023 ESG Report 22
Mesage from About Our Approach Solving Problems Environment Social Impact Governance Appendix
Dr. Udit Batra Waters to ESG that Matter
SOCIAL IMPACT
Fostering
an inclusive
workplace
| 2023 ESG Report 23
Mesage from About Our Approach Solving Problems Environment Social Impact Governance Appendix
Dr. Udit Batra Waters to ESG that Matter
SOCIAL IMPACT
Our people create the Waters diference. We
consider our ability to attract and retain diverse
team members one of the key success factors of our
business. We seek to become more representative of
the society we live in, to create a workplace where
all employees can thrive, and to build a stronger and
more diverse employee pipeline through community
engagement and targeted philanthropy programs.
SOCIAL GOALS
Increase % of women in leadership (YOY)
Increase % of Black and Latinx employees (YOY)
Increase number of students exposed to, and Waters
volunteers engaged in, STEM education in the
community (YOY)
| 2023 ESG Report 24
Mesage from About Our Approach Solving Problems Environment Social Impact Governance Appendix
Dr. Udit Batra Waters to ESG that Matter
Talent Recruitment
We know that our people are paramount in enabling us to solve Additionally, the Production Team in our TA Instruments
problems that matter. Our goal is to attract diverse and talented division created a cooperative employment program with a
employees who are essential to the continued success of the local vocational high school. As part of the program,
company. students take high school courses in the morning, then work
assembling and testing products in the afternoon to get
hands-on experience in manufacturing and engineering.
Investing in Our Talent Pipeline
Waters Student Academy
Waters is actively helping to build a strong diverse talent pipeline by
sponsoring programs and initiatives that promote STEM education
In early 2022, we formalized and expanded the Waters Student
for elementary school through high school and college students,
Academy (WSA) to foster hands-on learning and engagement
with a special focus on students of color and young women.
with historically underrepresented high school students, following
a successful pilot program. In 2022, WSA invited students from
Campus Partnerships three local schools to participate in an immersive summer
internship program that combined mentoring, education, business,
We partner with universities across the globe to promote
and science components with a goal of sparking students’
career opportunities to young people, targeting those
interests in STEM learning and career opportunities. As a result of
historically underrepresented in STEM, specifically women
this program, many of the students expressed a desire to continue
and students of color. Some examples of relationships include
exploring diferent areas of science and potential careers in
University of Manchester, University of Transylvania, Dublin
STEM. In 2023, we also expanded our program outside the U.S. to
University, Indian Institute of Technology in Chennai, Princeton
Wilmslow, U.K., to provide the same hands-on experiences.
University, and Northeastern University.
Partnerships to Advance Recruitment
Global Internships
We value the global third parties we work with to promote
In 2022, we hosted our first enterprise-level internship
STEM careers and the opportunities Waters ofers. This
program globally. We were joined by more than 150 interns
includes targeting European university career websites to
across eight countries. These internships provided graduate
promote STEM careers, promoting Waters inclusive culture
and undergraduate students with supportive, engaging, and
and targeting historically underrepresented communities with
beneficial experiences while building campus partnerships and
information about the company and careers. Some of the
pipelines of diverse talent. Our first intern class was made up of
parties we work with are Out in Tech, JobTeaser, Stonewall,
45% women, 7% Black interns, and 7% Latinx interns. Following
Wise, and Hackajob.
the program, we hired approximately 15% of these interns as full-
time or temporary employees.
|| 22002233 EESSGG RReeppoorrtt 25
Mesage from About Our Approach Solving Problems Environment Social Impact Governance Appendix
Dr. Udit Batra Waters to ESG that Matter
Compensation and Benefits REWARDS AND HEALTH AND RECOGNITION
FINANCIAL WELLNESS AND SOCIAL
Our Total Rewards programs are designed to attract, reward,
and retain a highly qualified and globally diverse workforce.
• Employee recognition
• Competitive compensation package • Well-being programs and
While our benefits specifics vary by country due to legislative programs
services, including workplace
and cultural diferences, they all aim to help our employees • Retirement Pension and Savings stress management and various
• Charitable Giving and company
programs, including company
achieve success at work and beyond and to realize the goals health initiatives matching gift, where applicable
contributions where applicable
of a rewarding career, a healthy life, and a bright future. • Health and welfare coverage
• A multitude of social activities,
• Employee Stock Purchase Program
(medical, including private
intramural sports, and clubs
(available to a majority of our global
Our bonus, long -term incentive, and recognition programs medical insurance where
employees)
emphasize our commitment to a performance -oriented applicable, and prescription, • Various corporate discounts
culture by ensuring that our highest performing team • Risk insurance, including life insurance, dental, vision, and mental health with participating retailers
accident insurance, disability protection, support)
members are appropriately compensated.
global business travel accident
• Employee and Family Assistance See a list of benefits and total rewards on
insurance Program (EAP) the Benefits and Total Rewards page of
In 2022, we conducted an in -depth review of modern Waters.com.
• Voluntary and supplemental benefit
Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) trends and initiatives • Flexible work arrangements
programs, where applicable
to identify and address any gaps in our benefits worldwide. including working hours and
Examples of areas of focus were access to care and coverage • Paid time of location arrangements
spanning our health and risk programs, time of and leaves, • Education and tuition reimbursement, • Medical leaves
work flexibility, and retirement savings programs. Following where applicable for regular full- time • Discounts on fitness center
and part- time (>24 hours/week)
the review, we addressed the actionable gaps we identified memberships and on- site fitness
by making enhancements to the benefits ofered in those • Parental and Family Care Leaves, centers at some ofice locations
where applicable
countries and for those programs, where attainable. We aim • Adoption support
to continue actioning against the items identified.
• Backup childcare and caregiver
support, where applicable
In 2022, we expanded our global well -being platform and
• Paid parental and paid family
programming to seven additional countries outside of the
leave for the primary and
United States: Canada, Brazil, France, Germany, Mexico,
non- primary caregiver, where
Puerto Rico, and Romania. We are proud to report that 50% applicable
of our total workforce now benefits from this added coverage.
• Provision of a pre -tax benefit
account used to pay for eligible
dependent care services such as
childcare, where applicable
| 2023 ESG Report 26
Mesage from About Our Approach Solving Problems Environment Social Impact Governance Appendix
Dr. Udit Batra Waters to ESG that Matter
Talent Development WATERS DIVISION TRAINING
173,350
MODULES FOR SALES & SERVICE
At Waters, growth and development are all about continuous
learning, the evolution of oneself, and the constant pursuit of
knowledge that makes us better. We work to communicate and
total hours of employee training SALES MARKETING
define the key behaviors and attributes that drive personal and
provided in 2022
organizational success and help develop all our employees as
leaders. 28 Training Events in 2022 ~9 Training Events in 2022
Developing Our Future Leaders 24 • Onboarding • Fundamentals of Marketing
• Platform and Process • Marketing Tactics
We invest in providing opportunities for our employees to • Sales Manager Development • Nurture
continuously develop skills. We leverage internal expertise and
• Buyer Engagement • Technologies
average hours training
external learning institutions to provide formal developmental
• Market Analytics
per employee
opportunities to build critical technical, managerial, and
leadership skills.
In 2022, our Waters Division invested in the development of
SCIENTIFIC SERVICE
service resources around the globe to transform our engineers
into partners for our customers and to solve problems that matter
each day. Waters ofered instructor-led trainings (iLT) and self- 31 Training Events in 2022 2,270 Certifications in 2022
paced eLearnings, available at any time.
• New Product Launch • Onboarding
Achievements from these programs include: • New Application • Technical Training
• Competitive Knowledge • Hardware
• 2,270 certifications were issued to service employees around the globe
over a 12-month period from both in-person and virtual trainings held in • Demo Strategy • Software
over 12 countries. • Commercial Foundations • Platform and Process
• More than 900 employees participated in 550 courses spanning the portfolio • Service Manager Development
of Waters products to enable employees to best serve Waters diverse
customer needs.
• Results from our post-course iLT survey confirms a >98% satisfaction rating
from employees.
• Waters employees completed >25,000 service-specific online courses.
| 2023 ESG Report 27
Mesage from About Our Approach Solving Problems Environment Social Impact Governance Appendix
Dr. Udit Batra Waters to ESG that Matter
Development and Performance Management Employee Engagement
To foster employee development and retention, all employees We know our people create the Waters diference. We value
are eligible to participate in career development discussions the voice of our employees and are committed to developing
with their managers and receive annual performance the best employees and identifying areas for improvement.
objectives and reviews. Quarterly check-in discussions
are conducted to deliver continuous feedback and help
Voice of Employee
employees drive progress along their chosen career paths.
Employees also leveraged workshops that enable them to
In 2022, we piloted the “on demand” Voice of Employee, an
gain a deeper understanding of Enterprise Priorities, set
engagement survey that leaders could initiate to collect team
aligned performance objectives, provide continuous feedback,
members perceptions in a structured way to inform actions
and deliver an efective performance review.
addressing performance, wellbeing, and engagement gaps.
Survey questions included topics related to job satisfaction,
VOLUNTARY HIRING & ROLE CHANGES
Waters Indomitable Leadership Program career development, and workplace flexibility. A total of 2,083
TURNOVER
full-time employees (approximately 27%) were surveyed
External Internal
In 2022, Waters invested in leadership capability building through this process with an 80% overall response rate.
through the Indomitable Leadership Program for 31 of 71% of employees in the survey responded with a top-level 2022 11.6% 2022 1,350 543
our senior leaders, in partnership with Duke Corporate satisfaction score, defined as 4 or 5 out of a 5-point Likert
2021 11.2% 2021 1,278 503
Education, which is part of Duke University. The program scale. In 2023, we are focusing our eforts on actionable areas
enabled participants to subsequently expand their leadership identified at the team level. 2020 6.1% 2020 660 249
roles across the company. It provides key business benefits
2019 6.8% 2019 835 321
to Waters by developing an enterprise-first mindset that We actively monitor our employee retention and turnover
combines established technical skills with expanded business performance, and our leadership is focused on attracting and 2018 7.2% 2018 789 715
acumen, driving deeper collaboration across business areas. retaining talent.
2017 7.3% 2017 736 228
The program’s objective is to generate an entrepreneurial
mindset within our business portfolio teams across the
organization. It aids our overall performance as a company by
giving our teams the necessary leadership skills to achieve the
following KPIs: annual above-market revenue growth, annual
margin expansion, roadmap execution, launch execution
quality, and team capability building and engagement.
| 2023 ESG Report 28
Mesage from About Our Approach Solving Problems Environment Social Impact Governance Appendix
Dr. Udit Batra Waters to ESG that Matter
Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion
Waters is committed to fostering a diverse and inclusive religion, gender identity or expression, age, sex, sexual
workplace that is representative of the societies we live orientation, national origin, genetics, marital status, veteran
in. Our approach to Diversity, Equity & Inclusion (DEI) is status, disability, or any other characteristic protected by
DIVERSE
designed to shift mindsets, foster inclusive behaviors, and law. As well as expressly prohibiting discrimination and
WORKFORCE
encourage increased representation of employees with harassment in our Global Code of Business Conduct and
diverse backgrounds. Ethics policy, Waters has enacted a number of measures
Becoming
to reinforce our commitment in this area. We have rolled
representative of the
Ultimate responsibility for diversity at Waters lies with our
out various trainings to many employees to support an
society we live in
Senior Vice President (SVP) of Global Human Resources,
inclusive culture that values diverse perspectives focusing
supported by our Director of DEI. Management, led by our
on understanding unconscious bias, leading inclusively, and
SVP, Global Human Resources, at least annually briefs our
building awareness of other identities and experiences. We
INCLUSIVE Board of Directors, who monitor our DEI initiatives and
have also developed procedures for reporting incidents via
WORKPLACE performance. As our Nominating and Corporate Governance
OUR our confidential, third-party toll-free telephone and web-
Committee Charter makes clear, when identifying potential
Creating a based ethics helpline. Both the hotline and website are
DEI
director candidates, the Nominating and Corporate
workplace where available in 11 languages.
PRIORITIES Governance Committee considerations of candidate
all employees can
qualifications and experience include, but are not limited Waters also developed strict disciplinary procedures where
thrive
to, diversity of gender, race and ethnicity, age, geographic disciplinary action up to and including dismissal may result
location, and nationality. Consistent with our focus on from cases of discriminatory behavior or harassment.
diversity to support the success of our business, nearly half of
COMMUNITY our Board is diverse by gender or ethnicity.
ENGAGEMENT
We are firmly committed to providing equal opportunity in
Engaging our all aspects of employment and will not tolerate any illegal
community to build discrimination or harassment of any kind. Relationships with
stronger and more colleagues and business relationships with competitors,
diverse pipelines suppliers, and customers always must be conducted free
of any discrimination, including based on race, color, creed,
| 2023 ESG Report 29
Mesage from About Our Approach Solving Problems Environment Social Impact Governance Appendix
Dr. Udit Batra Waters to ESG that Matter
Partnerships to Advance DEI
39%
In 2022, Waters proudly added two new partnerships to
Waters received a score
support our LGBTQIA+ community: Stonewall in the
U.K. and PFLAG in the U.S. Additionally, in January 2023,
of 100 out of 100 on of senior leadership hires were women
we began our partnership with Fairygodboss, a career
community for women. This furthers our commitment to
the 2022 Corporate
increasing diversity within our employee base.
Equality Index (CEI), the
Campus Partnerships 34%
Human Rights Campaign We work with global universities to recruit diverse and under-
represented employees and interns. In 2022, we partnered
Foundation’s annual with Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCU) on of global senior directors and above are
a program that combined STEM-based research grants for women
scorecard for LGBTQ+ students with direct mentoring by Waters employees.
Re-evaluating Hiring Practices
workplace equality.
As part of our eforts to become more representative of the ~66%
society we live in and increase diversity, Waters has made
eforts to improve the quality of job descriptions and to utilize
target sourcing to increase the qualified pool of diverse
of executive team is diverse based on
candidates. Highlights include:
gender and/or ethnicity
• Increasing representation of women field service engineers in India, an
area where there has typically been zero representation.
• Making job descriptions more inclusive with the goal to increase the
number of historically underrepresented applicants.
| 2023 ESG Report 30
Mesage from About Our Approach Solving Problems Environment Social Impact Governance Appendix
Dr. Udit Batra Waters to ESG that Matter
Our Five Employee Circles
Focus On:
DISABILITY
A space for people with disabilities and allies
to connect, build awareness, and analyze
accessibility opportunities.
PEOPLE OF COLOR
Celebrating racial and ethnic diversity through
support, engagement, and collaboration to
create awareness and appreciation.
PRIDE
A forum for members of the LGBTQIA+
Driving an Inclusive Workforce Other DEI highlights include: community and their allies to learn, network,
and advocate for an environment that
As part of our company-led initiatives to drive an inclusive workplace, we have • In 2022, as part of the Waters Student Academy, Waters mentors and
teachers participated in a custom instructional program focused on promotes inclusion, equality, and diversity.
created voluntary, employee-driven employee resource groups worldwide
unconscious bias training in STEM education.
to foster a diverse and inclusive culture through awareness, education, and
• In 2023, we began providing employees in the U.S. and U.K. an avenue VETERANS
employee connections. Our global Employee Circles provide opportunities for
to anonymously share gender identity and sexual orientation data so
Waters employees to connect with teammates throughout the world, while that Waters can implement strategies to build a culture that supports all Connects veterans to support one another
Employee Hubs encourage engagement at the local level. In 2022, we added a employees and measure our progress towards our diversity goals. and collaborate with leaders across the
fifth Employee Circle for Disability. Our Circles and Hubs led various initiatives company to ensure they are well represented
Gender Pay Equality
in 2022 to build a strong culture of inclusion and awareness including a in our recruiting eforts.
global celebration for International Women’s Day and a Waters-wide internal Waters discloses gender pay ratios in the United Kingdom,
cookbook for employees across the globe to share their cultures through food. France, and Ireland. For more information, see 2022 UK WOMEN
Gender Pay Gap Report, France Gender Equality Index 2022,
A space for women and allies to connect
and Ireland (Wexford) Gender Pay Gap Report 2022.
and support each other through mentorship,
sponsorship, and learning.
| 2023 ESG Report 31
Mesage from About Our Approach Solving Problems Environment Social Impact Governance Appendix
Dr. Udit Batra Waters to ESG that Matter
WOMEN IN LEADERSHIP U.S. WORKFORCE BY RACE / ETHNICITY
29% 34% ~23%
racially and/or ethnically diverse
Women in management positions in revenue- Senior Director and above
generating functions 77%
White
26%
27% 11% Asian
4% Black or African
Managers below Senior Director level
American
Women in all management positions
7% Hispanic / Latino
1%
Two or more races
GLOBAL WORKFORCE BY GENDER NEW HIRES BY GENDER GLOBAL WORKFORCE BY AGE
20–30 30–40 40–50 50–60 >60
10% 32% 29% 21% 8%
68.4% 31.6% 63% 37%
10% 32% 29% 21% 8%
Men Women Men Women
| 2023 ESG Report 32
Mesage from About Our Approach Solving Problems Environment Social Impact Governance Appendix
Dr. Udit Batra Waters to ESG that Matter
Health and Safety
Occupational Health and Safety Management System
Waters is committed to providing a safe and healthy
workplace for our employees, to act responsibly to protect the Waters is committed to Occupational Health and Safety and
environment, and to be recognized by our communities as an believes that its employees and contractors should experience
excellent employer and corporate neighbor. We are guided by a safe and healthy workplace. To this end, Waters implements
our Waters Health, Safety, and Environmental Policy, which an Occupational Health and Safety management system
covers all employees and which we in practice extend to all that is overseen at the Executive level by our SVP Global
contractors. Operations. In light of this commitment, Waters routinely
examines its operations, consults with its employees, and
Our Senior Director of Real Estate, Facilities & Health, Safety
sets up resulting prioritization, targets, and action plans.
& Environment (HSE) has managerial oversight of our health
Additionally, Waters also seeks to maintain compliance with
and safety program. Our Global HSE Leadership Steering
certain OHS international standards.
Committee provides direction and endorsement for Waters
HSE programs, while our Global HSE Group manages risk As of April 2022, our headquarters (and largest manufacturing
and establishes measures to implement and communicate facility) in Milford, Massachusetts, was certified to the
program requirements. Additionally, every Waters facility ISO 45001 Health and Safety Management standard, as
worldwide has an HSE representative to administer HSE were our two largest contract manufacturing partner sites.
programs and compliance at the site level. Approximately 20% of our global workforce works at our ISO
45001 certified facility. Waters is phasing in ISO 45001 safety
Waters Safety Committees meet regularly to review safety
management systems at our largest manufacturing sites, a
issues, conduct audits, and provide employee training.
program we expect to complete by the end of 2025. As part
Employee feedback is taken into consideration as part of this
of this, we are expanding and standardizing our incident-
process. Waters encourages all employees to utilize our HSE
management processes. Additionally, we are in the process
data management software to record near misses and “good
of expanding our external compliance auditing schedule at
catches,” which proactively identify and correct workplace
Waters facilities. Between 2021 and 2022, manufacturing and
hazards. Use of the software helps standardize best practices
lab facilities received HSE audits conducted by a third party;
across the enterprise and facilitates development and
remaining low-risk office sites will be completed by the end
tracking of leading indicators.
of 2023. Moving forward, audits will be conducted on a risk-
based schedule, every three to five years.
| 2023 ESG Report 33
Mesage from About Our Approach Solving Problems Environment Social Impact Governance Appendix
Dr. Udit Batra Waters to ESG that Matter
INJURY/ILLNESS PERFORMANCE LOST TIME CASES
Waters complies with occupational health requirements,
(Rate per 200,000 hours worked)
including workplace monitoring and controls to minimize
2022 17
workplace health hazards. Proactive ergonomic assessments
1.4 2021 11 of our workspace and physical operations are completed
1.2 to minimize the risk of musculoskeletal disorders. In
1.1 2020 15
addition, our Total Rewards portfolio provides resources to
0.9 2019 15
support employees’ mental health, well-being, and work-life
0.7 effectiveness. There is an on-site clinic at our headquarters
2018 13
0.5 0.5 that provides treatment for routine and work-related health
0.4 0.4 0.45
0.34
2017 21 issues, as well as vaccination clinics, and health screenings.
0.2 0.21
0.14
2016 15
We closely monitor safety-related data measures, including
Total Recordable Incident Rate, Lost Time Incident Rate, and
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 Note: Data from 2016–2019 are for sites in
the United States only. Number of Lost Time Cases, as key indicators in our effort
TRIR LTIR to achieve a zero-accident workplace. Our 2022 global Total
Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) is 0.45 and our Lost Time
Incident Rate (LTIR) is 0.21. In 2022, Waters had 17 lost time
cases. Waters had zero work-related fatalities in 2022. Full-
time and part-time employees and contractors are included in
our safety metrics.
As part of Waters Occupational Health and Safety Waters has rigorous safety protocols, including emergency
management system, we seek to foster a safe workplace, preparedness procedures. All manufacturing facilities have
identify what could cause harm in the workplace through robust emergency procedures, and all manufacturing and
risk and hazard assessments, and ensure that all employees field service personnel receive mandatory training. As a
are empowered to prevent accidents and injuries. Through minimum, every site is required to have evacuation, fire
online and in-person training programs, all employees receive and first aid arrangements in place and are audited for
mandatory Health, Safety, and Environmental training when compliance.
they are onboarded and when any policy documents are
Waters occupational health and safety programs are
updated. Employees who are exposed to workplace hazards
applicable to all permanent and temporary employees,
such as compressed gases, confined spaces, biological
contractors, and site visitors. As a result, compliance with
substances, and hazardous materials also receive specialized
these programs is integrated within our procurement and
safety training in accordance with regulatory requirements.
contractual requirements with third-party vendors.
| 2023 ESG Report 34
Mesage from About Our Approach Solving Problems Environment Social Impact Governance Appendix
Dr. Udit Batra Waters to ESG that Matter
Contractor Safety Human Rights Commitment
We strive to provide our contractors a safe work environment,
We work with our Waters is committed to respecting the human rights of its
as guided by our HSE Policy. All contractors at our
employees, an approach that we apply company-wide, covering
manufacturing facilities are prescreened for safety and
suppliers to ensure that our own operations and that of our suppliers and contractors.
performance risks. In our Milford facility, compliance with
We are committed to respect human rights in accordance with
safety guidelines is included in the contractual agreements.
our expectations for internationally accepted standards, including those defined
Additionally, we provide contractors with on-site safety
by the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and
trainings depending on the level of risk at each facility. We
responsible behavior are Human Rights. We are also committed to prevent human
closely monitor the safety performance and activities of our
trafficking, forced labor, child labor and discrimination across our
on-site contractors, and we include any accidents in our
understood and met. operations, suppliers, and contractors.
safety metrics.
We proactively identify and assess risks relating to human
rights in our own operations, when conducting new business
Customer Health and Safety
relationships, and we periodically conduct global supply
Waters takes seriously the health and safety of our customers. chain risk assessments for established relationships. When
All Waters products are evaluated for relevant health and doing such assessments, we consider four key factors that
safety risks and are provided with appropriate documentation. drive the risk of forced labor in our supply chains: sector and
It is expected that our products will be used in laboratory industry risks, product-specific risks, geographic risks, and
environments by trained operators using appropriate personal company-specific risks. We also conduct a systematic annual
protective equipment. risk assessment of our largest direct suppliers by spend and
review whether they meet several social responsibility criteria,
Waters chemistry products are documented in accordance
including having a human rights policy, a supply chain code
with the Globally Harmonized System of Classification and
of conduct, and a supply chain sustainability program. We
Labeling of Chemicals (GHS), with Safety Data Sheets (SDS)
also review their MSCI ESG ratings and whether they provide
available that document each product's physical and chemical
a CMRT as part of Waters annual Conflict Minerals survey. In
properties, exposure hazards, safe handling and transport,
2022, we screened approximately 95% of our direct (product-
cleanup instructions and first aid, toxicology, pollution risks,
related) spend against these criteria.
and disposal considerations. Safety Data Sheets are available
in 14 languages.
| 2023 ESG Report 35
Mesage from About Our Approach Solving Problems Environment Social Impact Governance Appendix
Dr. Udit Batra Waters to ESG that Matter
Philanthropy
Waters strives to make a
positive, lasting impact in the
communities in which we live and
work. Our philanthropy supports
organizations who are making
advancements in areas aligned
with our three philanthropic
pillars: human health and well-
being; STEM education; and
diversity, equity, and inclusion.
• IMPROVING HEALTH AND WELL-
BEING: We continue working to
improve human health and well-
being through partnerships with
organizations driving advancements in
clinical diagnostics and medicines, as
well as ensuring access to food safety
and security.
• INVESTING IN STEM EDUCATION:
We invest in future talent by
supporting access to STEM education
throughout a student’s educational
journey, with a special focus on
supporting people of color and women
in STEM.
• FOSTERING DIVERSITY AND
INCLUSION: We support
organizations that are aligned with our
diversity and inclusion efforts and the
intent of our Employee Circles to help
us represent the diverse society that
we live in.
| 2023 ESG Report 36
Mesage from About Our Approach Solving Problems Environment Social Impact Governance Appendix
Dr. Udit Batra Waters to ESG that Matter
2022 PHILANTHROPY HIGHLIGHTS
Waters Wilmslow Running Festival
Blood Drives in Milford and New Castle
This year, Waters commemorated a decade of support for the
In 2022 and 2023, employees at both Waters headquarters in
annual Wilmslow Running Festival, also marking our debut
Milford, MA, and our TA Instruments division in New Castle,
as the event’s headline sponsor. Waters colleagues ran in the
DE, participated in a blood drive. For the November 2022
event (which featured a half-marathon main event, a 10k race,
drive, 88 donors signed up to donate blood, which equates to
and a fun run), volunteered along the course, and the Waters
saving up to 264 lives.
STEM ambassadors staffed a tent to engage spectators in
hands-on STEM activities. The event attracted more than Science and Industry Museum
4,000 participants and 26 Waters volunteers. As with previous
years, Waters employees identified The Christie, the largest Waters has partnered with the Science and Industry Museum
single-site cancer center in Europe, as their charity of choice, in Manchester for over 11 years, making it the museum’s
and Waters matched the contribution of any employee who longest serving industry partner to date. In 2022, during
chose to run with Team Waters. the October half-term school holidays, our volunteer STEM
ambassadors participated in the museum’s annual Science
Waters Student Academy Festival, working with children and families in one of the first
face-to-face STEM outreach activities since the pandemic.
In 2021, Waters developed the Waters Student Academy, a
pilot program that invited historically underrepresented high Junior Achievement
school students from communities in Boston to participate in
a hands-on learning experience, including science-focused Waters continued to partner with Junior Achievement
lab experiments and “soft skill” training. In 2022, the Waters Worldwide, one of the world’s most impactful youth-serving
Student Academy expanded to include students from Milford, nonprofits, on programs that support STEM education. In
MA. In 2023, the program expanded outside the U.S. to 2022, we worked together to host a mentorship opportunity in
Wilmslow, U.K. Some highlights from 2023: Wexford, Ireland, focused on “Girls in Science.”
• Expanded the academy in two locations, offering an additional 3-week HBCU Partnerships
program for nine students in Wilmslow, U.K.
In the 2022–2023 academic year, Waters sponsored research
• Increased the number of students in Milford, MA, from 15 to 27
grants for three students at two historically Black colleges and
• Offered our first ever Alumni event at MIT Media Lab
universities (HBCU)—Cheyney University of Pennsylvania and
Clark Atlanta University.
| 2023 ESG Report 37
Mesage from About Our Approach Solving Problems Environment Social Impact Governance Appendix
Dr. Udit Batra Waters to ESG that Matter
GOVERNANCE
Enhancing
long-term
stakeholder value
| 2023 ESG Report 38
Mesage from About Our Approach Solving Problems Environment Social Impact Governance Appendix
Dr. Udit Batra Waters to ESG that Matter
GOVERNANCE
We seek to foster long-term stakeholder
value by ensuring that we have effective
governance and oversight, as well as policies
and procedures to manage risk and ensure
compliance.
We believe that the tone for excellence and
integrity is set at the top. For more information
on our Board oversight actions and the
exceptional stature, accomplishments, and
diversity among our directors, please see our
latest Proxy Statement.
| 2023 ESG Report 39
Mesage from About Our Approach Solving Problems Environment Social Impact Governance Appendix
Dr. Udit Batra Waters to ESG that Matter
Ethics and Integrity Manager Responsibility
Over the past 65 years, Waters has built a valuable reputation We expect all employees to be leaders, but we recognize
for maintaining the highest standards of business integrity. that managers in particular are role models and must lead
We are committed to conducting our business ethically and by example, inspiring their teams to comply with our Global
in full compliance with our own internal systems and the laws Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and conduct business
and regulations of the countries where we operate. Our Chief in accordance with our values.
Executive Officer, General Counsel, and Chief Compliance
As role models, managers must regularly reinforce to their
Officer have responsibility for the administration of our
teams the importance of understanding and following our
business ethics program, while our full Board of Directors has
Global Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, as well as all
ultimate oversight. We define our expectations and guidelines
related policies. They must also understand the risks inherent
for our employees, including our executive officers, directors,
in their team members’ work and perform an active role in
and third-party business partners in our Global Code of
ensuring the quality and ethical integrity of that work. They
Business Conduct & Ethics (the “Code”), as well as a series
must encourage employees to speak up and raise concerns
of related policies and procedures, such as our Global Anti-
about potential legal and ethical issues if they arise and
Bribery & Anti-Corruption Compliance Policy. The Code
foster a work environment where they feel comfortable doing
and related policies are all available in multiple languages
so. Managers are also required to take all reasonable steps
to accommodate the local languages in the areas where we
to ensure that all concerns are promptly escalated through
operate. Our Board of Directors reviews and approves the
appropriate channels. These expectations apply across all In 2022, we enhanced our due diligence programs as it relates
Code annually.
business units and functions at Waters. to third-party business partners.
Our ethics and integrity standards also apply to the marketing,
Everyone’s Responsibility Ethics Helpline
advertising, and sales of all our products around the globe.
Waters is committed to the practice of ethical marketing, As stated in our Global Complaint Reporting Policy, we
All employees, including our executive officers, must attest to
which is covered by our Global Code of Business Conduct and maintain reporting channels for anyone who has knowledge
their compliance with the Code and related policies annually.
Ethics. This includes providing accurate information about our of, or reason to suspect, any violation of any of our policies or
In addition, Waters provides mandatory compliance training
products and services and ensuring that all interactions with procedures to immediately report that information. Reports
to educate all employees, including part-time employees,
customers globally meet our ethical standards. may be made to our Legal or Compliance departments or
about the requirements and obligations of the Code and
through our confidential, third-party, toll-free telephone ethics
related policies and procedures. We continually take steps to align with best practice as the
helpline and web reporting service. Both the helpline and
world’s compliance and regulatory postures evolve.
website are available in 11 languages.
| 2023 ESG Report 40
Mesage from About Our Approach Solving Problems Environment Social Impact Governance Appendix
Dr. Udit Batra Waters to ESG that Matter
Committed to
Ensuring Safety and
Compliance
All reports made to the helpline are logged and sent to risk-based end-use checks to ensure that our products Our Product Stewardship team works to ensure that our
Corporate Compliance or Human Resources, depending on are used in the prescribed manner and in compliance with products comply with all applicable regulations regarding
the type of report. Once a report is made an investigation applicable U.S. and market-country laws. All employees receive product use and safety, material composition, hazardous
will commence and escalation to the legal function might annual mandatory training on Import and Export compliance. substance restrictions, and hazard communications for
occur if it relates to the potential violations of law or the territories in which they are sold. They ensure that our
material violations of a company policy. All reports are products do not contain substances that would prohibit their
Product Safety and Quality
treated confidentially and tracked in the database. The Chief sale, use, or safe disposal. They conduct full assessments of
Compliance Officer will also periodically report to the Audit all product designs, sources, and manufacturing processes
Guided by our Quality Policy and Health, Safety and
Committee about the volume and nature of reports received. to ensure compliance with restricted substance regulations,
Environmental Policy, we are dedicated to customer
Waters has a strict no retaliation policy in regard to any report such as the Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS)
experience excellence. We maintain the effectiveness of
made honestly and in good faith. Directive; Registration, Evaluation, Authorization, and
our quality management system and foster an environment
Restriction of Chemicals (REACH); Substances of Concern
of continual improvement while meeting statutory and
In Products (SCIP); and the Toxic Substances Control Act
Interactions with Healthcare Professionals and regulatory requirements. Our product safety and quality
(TSCA). They also request the full material composition for
Product Labeling program is overseen by our Vice President of Global Quality
product components we purchase from a third party.
and Senior Vice President of Global Operations.
As part of our global compliance program, we take seriously all
Waters continually monitors and addresses changes in the
our legal and ethical requirements, including interacting with Our manufacturing facilities undergo regular internal
global regulatory landscape for product design, sourcing,
healthcare organizations and professionals. Our anti-bribery audits to determine if they are conforming with our quality
and manufacturing processes and, where necessary, makes
corruption policy prohibits the making of direct or indirect management system. They also undergo external audits as
updates to ensure ongoing compliance. Through our supplier
offers, promises, or payments of anything of value to third part of their ISO 9001 quality management certification. All
management practices and with our Supplier Quality Manual,
parties, including healthcare professionals, to obtain business relevant employees receive mandatory annual training about
we work to ensure that our suppliers are operating in support
advantage. Our Global Import and Export policies mandate their responsibilities for product quality and safety.
of these objectives.
| 2023 ESG Report 41
Mesage from About Our Approach Solving Problems Environment Social Impact Governance Appendix
Dr. Udit Batra Waters to ESG that Matter
ISO CERTIFICATIONS
86%
Americas
Milford, MA* 9001, 13485, IVD Reg
Taunton, MA* 9001
(12 of 14) of our manufacturing facilities are ISO 9001 certified.
TA Instruments
New Castle, DE* 9001
Lindon, UT* 9001
Eden Prairie, MN* 9001, 17025
Our Product Stewardship team also works with our logistics
Hullhorst, GE*
and manufacturing organizations to ensure that products are
Golden, CO* 9001, 17025, 17034, 17043
appropriately labeled and packaged to ensure their safe shipment
Nixa, MO*
to our customers around the world. This includes ensuring that they
Wyatt Technology
are classified as Dangerous Goods as appropriate (based on the
Santa Barbara, CA* 9001
United Nations Recommendations on the Transport of Dangerous
Brazil 9001 Goods), and that packaging, shipping, and handling processes
Europe/UK are carried out in accordance with International Air Transport
Wilmslow, UK* 9001, 13485 Association (IATA) requirements and local laws. Our Global Trade
Solihull, UK* 9001 Compliance team also carries out due diligence to ensure that the
Wexford, IR* 9001, 13485, 17025, 17034 distribution of Waters products complies with export laws and
Newcastle, UK 9001 regulations in each country (including the United States) in which
Romania 9001 Waters does business. Our Regulatory Afairs team works with our
Netherlands 9001 Global Trade Compliance and distribution teams to ensure that In
Hungary 9001 Vitro Diagnostic (IVD) products are sold to customers in territories
Italy 9001 where appropriate registrations and licensing are in place.
France 9001
Our Conflict Minerals program, conducted in accordance with
Asia
OECD guidance, conducts an annual supply chain survey, the
Singapore* 9001, 13485
results of which are filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
China* 9001
Commission in accordance with the Dodd-Frank requirements.
Australia 9001
Hazard communications for our chemistry products are conducted
Japan 9001
in accordance with the requirements of the Globally Harmonized
* indicates manufacturing facility. System of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals (GHS).
| 2023 ESG Report 42
Mesage from About Our Approach Solving Problems Environment Social Impact Governance Appendix
Dr. Udit Batra Waters to ESG that Matter
For traceability, all Waters products have a unique part suppliers, supports our supplier diversity programs, reduces
number. All instruments, and some spare parts carry logistical complexity, lowers costs, supports high product
barcoded labels indicating serial number, date of manufacture, quality and availability, and reduces the environmental impact
country/plant of origin, and compliance with applicable of our operation and our supply chain.
regulatory requirements. Similar labeling exists for columns
and chemistry products, which are typically lot-controlled,
Supplier Audits
with certificates of analysis available upon request. Waters
also maintains device history records and keeps records of As part of our product quality and safety management, as
which serialized products have been sold to which customers. well as our commitment to the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain
Initiative (PSCI), Waters conducts its own audits of its critical
Supply Chain Management suppliers. Quality engineers vary audit subject matter based
on relevance to suppliers’ business. We require our suppliers
Waters supply chain management practices are overseen by to undergo audits to maintain their ISO certifications.
our Vice President, Global Supply Chain, who has authority
for global materials planning, demand planning, distribution Due to our commitment to providing suppliers with regular
and logistics, product stewardship and trade compliance. Our feedback on their performance, in addition to our formal
Global Supply Chain organization works in conjunction with audits, we provide feedback through scorecards and business
our engineering, global procurement, manufacturing, and reviews concerning quality, delivery performance, service
quality teams to ensure that purchased goods and services level, strategic goals, projects, and business needs. Our direct
meet technical, quality, and regulatory requirements. material suppliers are objectively monitored and evaluated
for quality, customer service and responsiveness, impact,
Our supply chain management practices are optimized around sourcing performance, on-time delivery (OTD) performance,
several guiding principles. First and foremost, our suppliers and overall risk. Scorecards are generated on delivery and
must be able to meet technical and quality requirements. incoming quality performance that are used to work with
Furthermore, we expect that suppliers will act in accordance selected suppliers to improve their performance.
with the principles outlined in our Supplier Quality Manual and
Global Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. Supplier Environmental and Social Assessments
Waters seeks to utilize local suppliers at each of our facilities As part of the ongoing evolution of Waters ESG program,
and works to identify component vendors located near our we are incorporating supplier environmental performance,
contract manufacturing partners’ plants. We believe that reporting, and goals, as well as an assessment of the
this approach promotes good working relationships with our maturity of their social responsibility programs, into
| 2023 ESG Report 43
Mesage from About Our Approach Solving Problems Environment Social Impact Governance Appendix
Dr. Udit Batra Waters to ESG that Matter
our supplier management practices. Our expectations We work with our suppliers to ensure that local laws
are communicated to suppliers as part of our supplier regarding wages, working conditions, and working hours are
onboarding process and are included in the standard terms observed and to ensure that child or forced labor is not used
and conditions of our purchasing contracts, as well as our in the manufacture of our products or in the components they
Supplier Quality Manual. We conduct initial and ongoing contain. Waters conducts periodic supplier visits and audits to
screening for ESG factors such as these via internal due review their processes to ensure their compliance.
diligence, negative news screening, and physical site
We periodically conduct global supply chain risk assessments,
inspection, the results of which can impact our actions of
sometimes with the support of third-party consultants, to explore
supplier selection and retention. As part of our ongoing
emerging issues including human rights. When doing such
supplier management process, suppliers may be required
assessments, we consider four key factors that drive the risk of
to demonstrate conformance with our expectations. Waters
forced labor in our supply chains: sector and industry risks, product-
reserves the right to discontinue business relationships with
specific risks, geographic risks, and company-specific risks.
suppliers that fail to operate in a legal, responsible, and
ethical manner.
We also conduct an annual assessment of our largest direct
suppliers by spend to review whether suppliers meet several
Supplier Ethics and Human Rights
social responsibility criteria, including having a human rights
Waters values fair, reliable business relationships with policy, a supply chain code of conduct, and a supply chain
suppliers and partners and encourages those with whom we sustainability program. We also review their MSCI ESG ratings
do business to share in our vision of responsible and ethical and whether they provide a CMRT as part of our annual Conflict
business practices. We expect our suppliers to adhere to Minerals survey. In 2022, we screened approximately 95% of our
all applicable laws, rules, and regulations of the countries direct (product-related) spend against these criteria.
in which they operate, including anti-corruption and anti-
As part of its ongoing review and assessment of its supply
competitive behavior.
chain, Waters routinely identifies its critical tier-1 and non-tier
Waters is committed to the prevention of human traficking, 1 suppliers. We define critical, tier 1 suppliers as those that
forced labor, child labor, discrimination, harassment, and other provide products or services that are critical to the safety,
human rights issues. We require our suppliers and contractors performance, and compliance of the finished good.
to uphold the human rights of workers and treat them with
Supplier Diversity Program
dignity and respect while ensuring a safe and healthy working
environment. We take this commitment seriously and have a
Waters maintains a supplier diversity program and evaluates
zero-tolerance approach.
our suppliers’ ESG performance. In 2022, 55% of our direct
| 2023 ESG Report 44
Mesage from About Our Approach Solving Problems Environment Social Impact Governance Appendix
Dr. Udit Batra Waters to ESG that Matter
(product-related) spend was with suppliers who had ESG Audit and Finance Committee has ultimate oversight of the
reports or goals or who publicized ESG performance metrics. information security and cybersecurity program, which is led
In addition, in 2022, 11% of total spend was with certified by Linda Baddour, who has experience as a senior financial
diverse small businesses. executive across healthcare, life sciences, pharmaceutical Supply Chain Climate Risk
services, and banking companies, including with respect
Each year, we assess critical and
to oversight of enterprise risk management. In addition,
Data Privacy and Cybersecurity
non-critical suppliers for whether the
management briefs, at least annually, the Company’s Board of
suppliers report publicly on climate
Directors on cybersecurity matters.
We recognize the importance of protecting our company and
change, whether they disclose
customers’ data. With the oversight of our Senior Director
Our data security programs include: relevant data regarding climate
of Information Security, we maintain measures to protect
impacts, and whether they set goals.
the integrity and security of our technology infrastructure • Establishment of advanced email security
In 2022, we screened 150 suppliers,
and internal and external data. Our Chief Information Oficer
• Launch of URL email protection representing approximately 95% of
(CIO) is a dedicated leader of Waters IT function, which
our direct (product-related) spend,
• Deployment of logging solution processing ~300 million events
includes cybersecurity, and reports directly to Waters
per day for risk, with 24x7 monitoring in place to respond to critical and determined that 55% of our
Chief Financial Oficer on the executive management team. events quickly spend was with suppliers that met
Together with the Audit & Finance Committee of the Board of
• Enhancement of network security program these criteria.
Directors, our management oversees our information security
and cybersecurity programs to ensure we have in place
appropriate and suficient policies and processes to manage
emerging threats and adapt to regulatory change. The
| 2023 ESG Report 45
Mesage from About Our Approach Solving Problems Environment Social Impact Governance Appendix
Dr. Udit Batra Waters to ESG that Matter
organizations. We believe we have a responsibility to be
transparent in how we interact with civic and political
institutions and therefore have had a longstanding
stipulation in our Global Anti-Bribery & Anti-Corruption
Compliance Policy that prohibits the Company’s
participation or contribution to political campaigns,
elections, or ballot-related matters.
In 2022, we adopted a formal Political Participation Policy
to further clarify the prohibition of the Company and all
of its employees, executive oficers, and directors, each
acting on behalf of the Company, from making political
contributions of any kind in support or opposition to political
candidates, campaigns, political parties, ballot initiatives, or
organizations that seek to directly or indirectly influence the
outcome of ballot measures or other facets of the electoral
process. During the reporting period, Waters made no direct
contributions to political campaigns, political organizations,
lobbyists, or lobbying organizations.
In 2022, we introduced cybersecurity training for all personal, sensitive, or non-public information, including from Open Innovation
employees and launched an intranet page on data security to customers. Waters maintains policies and location specific
assist in their continued education. In 2023, we launched an notices to govern and manage data privacy. As a company that is committed to solving problems that
enhanced training program with advanced phishing tests. matter, Waters utilizes a variety of collaborative channels in its
Political Participation innovation process. Examples of our open innovation fall into
three primary categories:
Data Privacy
To support our mission to unlock the potential of science,
Our Employee Privacy Notice, General Privacy Notice, and Waters has taken public positions in industry debates and
1.R&D Collaborations with Third Parties
Confidential Information Policy provide the foundation for associations that are consistent with our business goals.
how Waters employees and business partners should conduct Issues include the analytical instrumentation industry, Waters frequently partners with academic researchers and
themselves to preserve the confidentiality of all third-party including certification boards and standard setting other companies around the world to advance research and
development progress in areas in which we can uniquely
| 2023 ESG Report 46
Mesage from About Our Approach Solving Problems Environment Social Impact Governance Appendix
Dr. Udit Batra Waters to ESG that Matter
contribute value to new and emerging, high-growth application 2.Open Chemistry Support for Our Customers the production of goods. Waters has a team dedicated to
areas with our capabilities and technologies. The below operational excellence and operational transformation that
Waters has industry-leading capabilities in the separation
examples of collaboration are expected to accelerate the time reports to our Vice President of Global Operations Strategy
of molecules with our liquid chromatography columns. We
to market for new innovation, providing access to further and Operational Excellence.
are proud to share these capabilities for use in both Waters
human capital and technologies beyond our core capabilities.
and non-Waters liquid chromatography instrument systems, Waters has recently adopted, or is in the process of adopting,
Earlier this year, Waters and Sartorius announced a new
allowing our customers to benefit from the unique innovation the following examples of process improvement:
collaboration to develop integrated analytical solutions
that our separations expertise ofers, regardless of the LC
for downstream biomanufacturing, expanding our joint
1.In Operations, we have further refined our “3S” problem-solving
platform their lab is outfitted with. Partially driven by our
agreement that began with upstream bioprocessing analytics. method to more closely follow Plan-Do-Check-Act. Adopting this
Software and hardware integrations between the Waters open chemistry support, Waters chemistry revenues in 2022 more advanced “A3” problem-solving method allows us to provide
were approximately $525 million (USD). more rigor in defining a problem statement while using data and
PATROL™ UPLC™ process analysis system and the Sartorius™
facts to overcome routine challenges in manufacturing processes,
Resolute® BioSMB multi-column chromatography platform
3.Licensing of Empower to Third Parties which can drive productivity gains. We are also starting to utilize the
will give bioprocess engineers access to more comprehensive SQDIP method of daily management which stands for Safety, Quality,
analytical data for downstream batch and continuous At Waters, we widely share our innovation in compliant Delivery, Inventory, and Productivity and is a process innovation that
improves real-time management of actions and supports enhanced
manufacturing, improving yields while reducing waste and informatics solutions. Our Chromatography Data System
quality standards in manufacturing.
driving down biomanufacturing costs. This collaboration is may be deployed on non-Waters liquid chromatography
2. As part of our model line for tubing, which is a production line in Milford
expected to result in increased understanding of customers’ instruments through a licensing arrangement. To facilitate
that makes sub-assemblies for our LC business, we held a process
unmet needs and allow further integration of Waters the positive end-user experience of all our customers, Waters event earlier this year to drive out costs in coupons and prepare for a
instruments to Sartorius bioreactors in an expanded set of actively supports customer deployment of its software new layout to accommodate new equipment. Our new coupon process
application areas. platform on non-Waters instruments, which also allows eliminates approximately $200,000 in annual costs, frees up floor space,
and gives us approximately 5% more laser welding capacity.
customer choice in their labs.
In May 2022, Waters and The University of Delaware
announced the grand opening of Immerse™ Delaware, a
Waters Innovation and Research Laboratory. As part of their
Process Innovation
multi-year research partnership announced in October 2021,
the lab opening is the first step on a journey to collaborate
Waters is committed to ongoing process innovation
with biopharma scientists both in industry and academia to
to expand eficiency and drive better outcomes in our
advance industrial processes for making and characterizing
manufacturing process, via continuous improvement over
biotherapeutics. The collaboration is expected to accelerate
time. This can include the introduction of new technologies,
our innovation journey in biotherapeutic separation and
process frameworks, and process management tools for
characterization workflows.
| 2023 ESG Report 47
Mesage from About Our Approach Solving Problems Environment Social Impact Governance Appendix
Dr. Udit Batra Waters to ESG that Matter
Appendix
| 2023 ESG Report 48
Mesage from About Our Approach Solving Problems Environment Social Impact Governance Appendix
Dr. Udit Batra Waters to ESG that Matter
SASB Index — Medical Equipment and Supplies
The disclosures in this report are informed by the recommendations of the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Medical Equipment & Supplies standard.
All data is for the year ending December 31, 2022.
Accounting Metric Code Disclosure
This metric is not relevant for Waters business model, and we do not consider it in our
practices. However, Waters follows a rigorous process and engages relevant stakeholders to set
Ratio of weighted average rate of net price increases (for all products) to the annual
HC-MS-240a.1 prices. Some of the criteria we use when setting prices include but are not limited to: product-
increase in the U.S. Consumer Price Index
specific attributes (e.g., lifecycle, innovation), value proposition of Waters portfolio, customer
Affordability & Pricing feedback, and internal metrics (e.g., revenue and price realization).
Waters sells products through multiple channels including direct sales to end customers,
Description of how price information for each product is disclosed to customers or distributors, dealers, and e-commerce channels. For products for which pricing data is public,
HC-MS-240a.2
to their agents Waters ensures transparency and accuracy pricing through electronic quotes, e-catalog and
Waters online ordering systems.
Number of recalls issued, total units recalled HC-MS-250a.1 Waters issued no product recalls in 2022.
List of products listed in the FDA’s MedWatch Safety Alerts for Human Medical No Waters products were listed in the FDA’s MedWatch Safety Alerts for Human Medical
HC-MS-250a.2
Products database Products Database in 2022.
Product Safety
Number of fatalities related to products as reported in the FDA Manufacturer and
HC-MS-250a.2 No fatalities have occurred in relation to Waters products as reported to MAUDE.
User Facility Device Experience
Number of FDA enforcement actions taken in response to violations of current Good No FDA enforcement actions were taken against Waters in 2022 in response to violations of
HC-MS-250a.4
Manufacturing Practices (cGMP), by type cGMP.
Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with Waters had no monetary losses in 2022 due to legal proceedings associated with false
HC-MS-270a.1
false marketing claims marketing claims.
Ethical Marketing
Description of code of ethics governing promotion of off-label use of products HC-MS-270a.2 See Interactions with Healthcare Professionals and Product Labelling.
Discussion of process to assess and manage environmental and human health
considerations associated with chemicals in products, and meet demand for HC-MS-410a.1 See Product Safety and Quality.
sustainable products
Product Design & Lifecycle
Management
Waters does not currently track this data.
Total amount of products accepted for takeback and reused, recycled, or donated,
HC-MS-410a.2 We are working to develop this capability on an enterprise-wide basis and for our current
broken down by: (1) devices and equipment and (2) supplies
initiatives. See Environment.
| 2023 ESG Report 49
Mesage from About Our Approach Solving Problems Environment Social Impact Governance Appendix
Dr. Udit Batra Waters to ESG that Matter
Percentage of (1) entity’s facilities and (2) Tier I suppliers’ facilities participating in
HC-MS-430a.1 See Product Safety and Quality.
third-party audit programs for manufacturing and product quality
Supply Chain Management
Description of efforts to maintain traceability within the distribution chain HC-MS-430a.2 See Product Safety and Quality.
Description of the management of risks associated with the use of critical materials HC-MS-430a.3 See Product Safety and Quality.
Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with
HC-MS-510a.1 Waters does not publicly discuss issues relating to anti-bribery and anti-corruption.
Business Ethics bribery or corruption
Description of code of ethics governing interactions with health care professionals HC-MS-510a.2 See Interactions with Healthcare Professionals and Product Labelling.
Activity Metric Number of units sold by product category HC-MS-000.A Waters does not disclose sales volume by number of units sold.
| 2023 ESG Report 50
Mesage from About Our Approach Solving Problems Environment Social Impact Governance Appendix
Dr. Udit Batra Waters to ESG that Matter
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures Index
Waters approach to disclosing climate-related risks and opportunities is aligned with the TCFD recommendations. The TCFD framework allows us to assess and communicate to our stakeholders
how we believe our analytical instruments and informatics portfolio may be impacted by an energy transition using diferent assumptions over time.
a) Board Oversight
Our Board of Directors provides ultimate oversight of the company’s risk management strategy, including climate-related risks and opportunities. The Board collectively is responsible for environmental, social, and
governance (“ESG”) risks, including those related to climate and environmental performance, as part of its approach to risk management. Our Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee (“NCG”) of the Board of
Directors oversees the Company’s ESG program and initiatives, including risks related to climate. The Company does not believe climate-related risks are financially material, but the Board and NCG reviews and assesses
Climate Change the Company’s relevant policies and practices regularly.
Governance
b) Management Role
Our senior management, including our Chief Executive Officer and General Counsel provide managerial oversight to environmental risks and opportunities, including those related to climate change, and how to apply
policies and strategies to address them in the business. Our senior management reports to the Board on at least an annual and, in addition, on an ad hoc basis, as necessary, regarding its assessment of climate-related
risks that could have an impact on the Company and possible mitigating strategies.
As an analytical instruments and informatics manufacturer, Waters does not consider climate-related risks to be financially material. However, we believe climate change is an important issue, which is why we have set a
goal to reduce our Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 35% by 2025 from a 2016 baseline.
We have identified the below climate-related risks that may have adverse effects on our operations. The nature of these risks depends on the physical aspects of climate change, market regulations, and investor and societal
pressure to reduce our carbon footprint and our ability to understand and respond to rapidly evolving developments. As described in our 10-K, our identified risks include the following:
Physical Risks - Part of the effects of climate change is an increase in the severity of global weather conditions. The Company’s manufacturing facilities are located in the U.S., U.K., Ireland, and Germany. In addition, the
Company manufactures a growing percentage of its HPLC, UPLC, and MS products in both Singapore and Ireland. Severe weather and geological conditions or events, including earthquakes, hurricanes and/or tsunamis,
could potentially cause significant damage to the Company’s manufacturing facilities in each of these countries. The effects of such damage and the resulting disruption of manufacturing operations and the impact of lost
sales could have a material adverse impact on the financial results of the Company.
Regulatory Risk - Concern over climate change or plastics and packaging materials, in particular, may result in new or increased legal and regulatory requirements to reduce or mitigate impacts to the environment.
Changing customer and consumer preferences or increased regulatory requirements may result in increased demands or requirements regarding plastics and packaging materials, including single-use and non-recyclable
plastic products and packaging, other components of our products and their environmental impact on sustainability, or increased customer and consumer concerns or perceptions (whether accurate or inaccurate)
Strategy
regarding the effects of substances present in certain of our products. Complying with these demands or requirements could cause us to incur additional manufacturing, operating, or product development costs.
The Company’s manufacturing processes for certain of its products involve the use of chemicals and other substances that are regulated under various international, federal, state, and local laws governing the environment.
In the event that any future climate change legislation would require that stricter standards be imposed by domestic or international environmental regulatory authorities with respect to the use and/or levels of possible
emissions from such chemicals and/or other substances, the Company may be required to make certain changes and adaptations to its manufacturing processes. Any such changes could have a material adverse effect
on the financial statements of the Company.
Reputational Risk - There is an increasing focus from certain investors, customers, consumers, employees, and other stakeholders concerning ESG matters. Additionally, public interest and legislative pressure related
to public companies’ ESG practices continue to grow. If our ESG practices fail to meet regulatory requirements or investor, customer, consumer, employee, or other stakeholders’ evolving expectations and standards for
responsible corporate citizenship in areas including environmental stewardship and sustainability, support for local communities, director and employee diversity, human capital management, employee health and safety
practices, product quality, supply chain management, corporate governance and transparency, our reputation, brand and employee retention may be negatively impacted, and our customers and suppliers may be unwilling
to continue to conduct business with us.
We believe our business is resilient in a 2°C and 1.5°C scenario given the nature of our business and we do not believe the risks of climate change would be financially material.
| 2023 ESG Report 51
Mesage from About Our Approach Solving Problems Environment Social Impact Governance Appendix
Dr. Udit Batra Waters to ESG that Matter
As climate-related risks are not viewed as material to our Company, we integrate climate-related risks management into our strategy and operations on an ad hoc basis. As necessary, we leverage a collaborative approach
among departments, business units, and external stakeholders to identify, assess, address, and mitigate such risks when present. Our company leadership and the Board of Directors are focused on monitoring, managing,
and mitigating various risks and their development to our business and financial performance, including climate change-related risks.
The Board is responsible for overseeing the management and operations of the Company, including its risk assessment and risk management functions. The Board has delegated responsibility to reviewing the Company’s
Risk Management policy with respect to risk assessment and management to the Audit & Finance Committee. The Audit & Finance Committee regularly discusses with management the Company’s major risk exposure. Additionally, the
Company has an enterprise risk management framework under the oversight of the Vice President, Internal Audit and Chief Compliance Officer. This program seeks to identify risks, develop, and implement risk mitigation
plans, and monitor the results affecting the Company’s business and operations on an ongoing basis. Company management actively participates in this program and briefs the Board on the strategic, operational,
compliance, and financial risks affecting the Company and efforts undertaken to mitigate them.
Consideration of such risks is implemented as part of operating and investment decision-making process, in all aspects of the business as part of our standard risk management approach.
Waters actively monitors and tracks Scope 1, 2, and 3 emissions, with data coverage of over 80% across our total global operations. We have begun calculating our Scope 3 GHG emissions, as noted below, and will seek
opportunities to expand and refine this activity over time.
Emissions in 2022:
• Scope 1 emissions – 15,600 mt CO2e
• Scope 2 emissions – 4,300 mt CO2e
Metrics and Targets • Scope 3 emissions (purchased goods and services, fuel-and-energy related activities, waste generated in operations, employee commuting, business travel) – 69,772 mt CO 2e
We have established a goal to reduce Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions 35% by 2025 from a 2016 baseline. This goal was set in consideration of science-based targets to limit global temperature rise consistent with a 2°C
climate change goal, as specified in the Paris Agreement.
To achieve our carbon reduction goals, we have taken actions including:
• Converting many of our facilities to 100% renewable and/or low carbon electricity, including our facilities in Wilmslow and Solihull, U.K.; Wexford, Ireland; and Huellhorst, Germany.
• Converting our U.S. and EMEA service vehicle fleet to hybrid and electric vehicles. We expect our European fleet to be 95% hybrid or electric by the end of 2025.
| 2023 ESG Report 52
Mesage from About Our Approach Solving Problems Environment Social Impact Governance Appendix
Dr. Udit Batra Waters to ESG that Matter
GRI Index
STATEMENT OF USE Waters has reported the information cited in this GRI content index for the period January 1, 2022 to December 31, 2022 with reference to the GRI Standards.
GRI 1 USED GRI 1: Foundation 2021
GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021
GRI STANDARD TITLE DISCLOSURE TITLE LOCATION OR RESPONSE
Waters Corporation (WAT)
2-1 General Disclosures Organizational details 34 Maple Street, Milford, Massachusetts, USA
About Waters (pages 5 - 6); Waters 2022 10-K
Entities included in the organization’s
2-2 General Disclosures Our Approach to ESG (pages 7 – 10)
sustainability reporting
January 1, 2022 to December 31, 2022
THE ORGANIZATION
Annual
AND ITS REPORTING 2-3 General Disclosures Reporting period, frequency and contact point
PRACTICES November 16, 2023
Sustainability@Waters.com
Energy use and GHG emissions data were revised in March 2023 to reflect corrected reporting for our Taunton facility from 2016-
20.Our total energy consumption for those years is approximately 13% higher than originally reported, and our total Scope 1 and
2-4 General Disclosures Restatements of information
2 GHG emissions are approximately 10% higher than originally reported. We identified the historical reporting error as part of our
annual internal review processes, in consultation with third-party consultants.
2-5 General Disclosures External Assurance We do not currently have external assurance on our ESG reporting.
Activities, value chain, and other business
2-6 General Disclosures Waters 2022 10-K
relationships
ACTIVITIES AND About Waters (pages 5 - 6)
2-7 General Disclosures Employees
WORKERS Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (pages 28 – 31)
From time-to-time, Waters engages contractors who are not employees in compliance with applicable national, state, and local
2-8 General Disclosures Workers who are not employees
laws and regulations.
| 2023 ESG Report 53
Mesage from About Our Approach Solving Problems Environment Social Impact Governance Appendix
Dr. Udit Batra Waters to ESG that Matter
Our Approach to ESG (pages 7 – 10)
2-9 General Disclosures Governance structure and composition Waters 2023 Proxy Statement
Waters Board of Directors
Nomination and selection of Waters 2023 Proxy Statement
2-10 General Disclosures
the highest governance body Waters Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee Charter
Waters 2023 Proxy Statement
2-11 General Disclosures Chair of the highest governance body
Waters Board of Directors
Role of the highest governance body in
2-12 General Disclosures Our Approach to ESG (pages 7 – 10)
overseeing the management of impacts
Delegation of responsibility for managing
2-13 General Disclosures Our Approach to ESG (pages 7 – 10)
impacts
Role of the highest governance body
2-14 General Disclosures Our Approach to ESG (pages 7 – 10)
in sustainability reporting
GOVERNANCE
2-15 General Disclosures Conflicts of interest Waters 2023 Proxy Statement
Ethics Helpline (pages 39 - 40)
2-16 General Disclosures Communication of critical concerns
Waters 2023 Proxy Statement
Collective knowledge of the highest
2-17 General Disclosures Waters 2023 Proxy Statement
governance body
Evaluation of the performance of the highest
2-18 General Disclosures Waters 2023 Proxy Statement
governance body
2-19 General Disclosures Remuneration policies Waters 2023 Proxy Statement
2-20 General Disclosures Process to determine remuneration Waters 2023 Proxy Statement
2-21 General Disclosures Annual total compensation ratio Waters 2023 Proxy Statement
| 2023 ESG Report 54
Mesage from About Our Approach Solving Problems Environment Social Impact Governance Appendix
Dr. Udit Batra Waters to ESG that Matter
2-22 General Disclosures Statement on sustainable development strategy Our Approach to ESG (pages 7 – 10)
Governance (pages 38 – 47)
2-23 General Disclosures Policy commitments Waters Governance Documents
Waters 2023 Proxy Statement
2-24 General Disclosures Embedding policy commitments Governance (pages 38 – 47)
Governance (pages 38 – 47)
2-25 General Disclosures Process to remediate negative impacts
Global Code of Business Conduct & Ethics
Ethics Helpline (pages 40 - 41)
Mechanisms for seeking advice and raising
2-26 General Disclosures Global Complaint Reporting Policy
concerns
STRATEGY, POLICIES
Waters 2023 Proxy Statement
AND PRACTICES
2-27 General Disclosures Compliance with laws and regulations Waters 2022 10-K
We are members of several industry and trade associations, some of which are listed below:
• Analytical, Life Sciences & Diagnostics Association (ALDA)
• American Society for Mass Spectrometry (ASMS)
• Associated Industries of Massachusetts
• Boston College Center for Corporate Citizenship
2-28 General Disclosures Membership of associations
• CDP Climate respondent
• Massachusetts Biotechnology Council
• Massachusetts High Tech Council
• New England Council
• Women in Manufacturing Association (WiM)
Our Approach to ESG (pages 7 – 10)
2-29 General Disclosures Approach to stakeholder engagement
STAKEHOLDER Waters 2023 Proxy Statement
ENGAGEMENT
2-30 General Disclosures Collective bargaining agreements Waters 2022 10-K
| 2023 ESG Report 55
Mesage from About Our Approach Solving Problems Environment Social Impact Governance Appendix
Dr. Udit Batra Waters to ESG that Matter
Material Topics
3-1 Material Topics Process to determine material topics Our Approach to ESG (pages 7 – 10)
GRI 3: MATERIAL
3-2 Material Topics List of material topics Our Approach to ESG (pages 7 – 10)
TOPICS 2021
3-3 Material Topics Management of material topics Our Approach to ESG (pages 7 – 10)
Topic-Specific Disclosures: Economic
Economic
201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Waters 2022 10-K
Performance
Economic Financial implications and other risks and
201-2 Waters 2022 10-K
GRI 201: ECONOMIC Performance opportunities due to climate change
PERFORMANCE 2016 Economic Defined benefit plan obligations and other
201-3 Waters 2022 10-K
Performance retirement plans
Economic
201-4 Financial assistance received from government Waters 2022 10-K
Performance
Indirect Economic Infrastructure investments and services
GRI 203: INDIRECT 203-1 Impact supported Waters 2022 10-K
ECONOMIC IMPACT
2016 203-2 Indirect Economic Significant indirect economic impacts Philanthropy (pages 36 – 37)
Impact
GRI 204:
Procurement
PROCUREMENT 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Supply Chain Management (pages 43 – 45)
Practices
PRACTICES 2016
Operations assessed for risks related to Governance (pages 38 – 47)
205-1 Anti-Corruption
corruption Global Anti-Bribery & Anti-Corruption Compliance Policy
GRI 205: ANTI- Communication and training about anti- Governance (pages 38 – 47)
205-2 Anti-Corruption
CORRUPTION 2016 corruption policies and procedures Global Anti-Bribery & Anti-Corruption Compliance Policy
Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions
205-3 Anti-Corruption Waters does not publicly disclose this information except as required by law.
taken
GRI 206: ANTI-
Anti-competitive Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-
COMPETITIVE 206-1 Waters does not publicly disclose this information except as required by law.
Behavior trust, and monopoly practices
BEHAVIOR 2016
Waters has not identified taxation as a material topic for ESG reporting purposes and does not publicly disclose tax obligations on
GRI 205: ANTI- 207-1 Tax Approach to Tax a per-country basis except as required by law.
CORRUPTION 2016
Waters 2022 10-K
| 2023 ESG Report 56
Mesage from About Our Approach Solving Problems Environment Social Impact Governance Appendix
Dr. Udit Batra Waters to ESG that Matter
Topic-Specific Disclosures: Environmental
301-1 Materials Materials used by weight or volume Waters does not track the total weight or volume of materials used in our products and processes.
GRI 301: MATERIALS
301-2 Materials Recycled input materials used Advancing Product Sustainability (page 18)
2016
Reclaimed products and their packaging
301-3 Materials Advancing Product Sustainability (page 18)
materials
302-1 Energy Energy consumption within the organization Energy Use and Greenhouse Gas Emissions (pages 20 - 21)
302-2 Energy Energy consumption outside of the organization Waters does not measure energy consumption outside of our operational control.
GRI 302: ENERGY
302-3 Energy Energy intensity Energy Use and Greenhouse Gas Emissions (pages 20 - 21)
2016
302-4 Energy Reduction of energy consumption Energy Use and Greenhouse Gas Emissions (pages 20 - 21)
Reductions in energy requirements of products
302-5 Energy Energy Use and Greenhouse Gas Emissions (pages 20 - 21)
and services
303-1 Water Interactions with water as a shared resource Water Use and Effluents (page 21 - 22)
303-2 Water Management of water discharge-related impacts Water Use and Effluents (page 21 - 22)
GRI 303: WATER AND
303-3 Water Water withdrawal Water Use and Effluents (page 21 - 22)
EFFLUENTS 2018
303-4 Water Water discharge Water Use and Effluents (page 21 - 22)
303-5 Water Water consumption Water Use and Effluents (page 21 - 22)
| 2023 ESG Report 57
Mesage from About Our Approach Solving Problems Environment Social Impact Governance Appendix
Dr. Udit Batra Waters to ESG that Matter
305-1 Emissions Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Energy Use and Greenhouse Gas Emissions (pages 20 - 22)
305-2 Emissions Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Energy Use and Greenhouse Gas Emissions (pages 20 - 22)
305-3 Emissions Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Energy Use and Greenhouse Gas Emissions (pages 20 - 21)
GRI 305: EMISSIONS
305-4 Emissions GHG emissions intensity Energy Use and Greenhouse Gas Emissions (pages 20 - 22)
2016
305-5 Emissions Reduction of GHG emissions Energy Use and Greenhouse Gas Emissions (pages 20 - 22)
305-6 Emissions Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Energy Use and Greenhouse Gas Emissions (pages 20 - 22)
Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), and
305-7 Emissions Not reported.
other significant air emissions
Waste Management and Recycling (page 21)
306-1 Waste Waste generation and significant waste-related Waters primary sources of non-hazardous waste are general office waste, single-stream recycling, food waste, scrap from
impacts manufacturing processes and end-of-life products, and e-waste. Our primary sources of hazardous waste are chemicals used in
our laboratories and manufacturing processes.
306-2 Waste Waste by type and disposal method Waste Management and Recycling (page 22)
GRI 306: WASTE 2020
306-3 Waste Waste generated Waste Management and Recycling (page 22)
306-4 Waste Waste diverted from disposal Waste Management and Recycling (page 22)
306-5 Waste Waste directed to disposal Waste Management and Recycling (page 22)
GRI 308: SUPPLIER Supplier
New suppliers that were screened using
ENVIRONMENTAL 308-1 Environmental Supply Chain Management (pages 43 – 44)
environmental criteria
ASSESSMENT 2016 Assessment
| 2023 ESG Report 58
Mesage from About Our Approach Solving Problems Environment Social Impact Governance Appendix
Dr. Udit Batra Waters to ESG that Matter
Topic-Specific Disclosures: Social
401-1 Employment New employee hires and employee turnover Employee Engagement (page 28)
Benefits provided to full-time employees that are
GRI 401: EMPLOYMENT
401-2 Employment not provided part-time employee to temporary Compensation and Benefits (page 26)
2016
or part-time employees
401-3 Employment Parental leave Compensation and Benefits (page 26)
Occupational Health Occupational health and safety management
403-1 Health and Safety (pages 33 – 35)
and Safety system
Occupational Health Hazard identification, risk assessment and
403-2 Health and Safety (pages 33 – 35)
and Safety incident investigation
Occupational Health
403-3 Occupational health services Health and Safety (pages 33 – 35)
and Safety
Worker participation, consultation and
Occupational Health
403-4 communication on occupational health and Health and Safety (pages 33 – 35)
and Safety
safety
GRI 403: 403-5 Occupational Health Worker training on occupational health and Health and Safety (pages 33 – 35)
OCCUPATIONAL and Safety safety
HEALTH AND SAFETY Occupational Health
2018 403-6 and Safety Promotion of worker health Health and Safety (pages 33 – 35)
Prevention and mitigation of occupational health
Occupational Health
403-7 and safety impacts directly linked by business Health and Safety (pages 33 – 35)
and Safety
relationships
Occupational Health Workers covered by an occupational health and
403-8 Health and Safety (pages 33 – 35)
and Safety safety management system
Occupational Health
403-9 Work-related injuries Health and Safety (pages 33 – 35)
and Safety
Occupational Health
403-10 Work-related ill health Health and Safety (pages 33 – 35)
and Safety
| 2023 ESG Report 59
Mesage from About Our Approach Solving Problems Environment Social Impact Governance Appendix
Dr. Udit Batra Waters to ESG that Matter
Training and
404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Talent Development (pages 27 – 28)
Education
GRI 404: TRAINING Training and Programs for upgrading employee skills and
404-2 Talent Development (pages 27 – 28)
AND EDUCATION 2016 Education transition assistance programs
Training and Percentage of employees receiving regular
404-3 Talent Development (pages 27 – 28)
Education performance and career development reviews
Diversity and Equal Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (pages 29 – 32)
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees
Opportunity Waters 2023 Proxy Statement
GRI 405: DIVERSITY Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (pages 29 – 32)
AND EQUAL
OPPORTUNITY 2016 405-2 Diversity and Equal Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women Waters UK 2022 Gender Pay Gap Report
Opportunity to men Waters France 2022 Gender Equity Index
Waters Ireland 2022 (Wexford) Gender Pay Gap Report
Operations with local community engagement,
GRI 413: LOCAL
413-1 Local Communities impact assessments, and development Philanthropy (pages 36 – 37)
COMMUNITIES 2016
programs
GRI 414: SUPPLIER
Supplier Social New suppliers that were screened using social
SOCIAL ASSESSMENT 414-1 Supply Chain Management (pages 43 – 45)
Assessment 2 criteria
2016
GRI 415: PUBLIC
415-1 Public Policy Political contributions Political Participation (page 46)
POLICY 2016
Customer Health Assessment of the health and safety impacts of
416-1 Health and Safety (pages 33 – 35)
GRI 416: CUSTOMER and Safety product and service categories
HEALTH AND SAFETY Incidents of non-compliance concerning the
2016 416-2 Customer Health health and safety impacts of products and Waters 2022 10-K
and Safety
services
GRI 417: MARKETING Marketing and Requirements for product and service
417-1 Product Safety and Quality (pages 41 – 43)
AND LABELING 2016 Labeling information and labeling
| 2023 ESG Report 60
Mesage from About Our Approach Solving Problems Environment Social Impact Governance Appendix
Dr. Udit Batra Waters to ESG that Matter
© 2023 Waters Corporation.
Waters, Xevo, ERA, ACQUITY, UPLC, TA Instruments,
FlexUp, SYNAPT, PATROL, and Immerse are trademarks of
Waters Corporation. Sartorius and Resolute are trademarks
of Sartorius AG and/or its affiliated companies.
Waters Corporation
34 Maple Street
Milford, MA 01757
T: 1-508-478-2000
F: 1-508-872-1990
waters.com
