Wells Fargo Sustainability & Governance Report
Published August 2024
Table of contents
3 Introduction 39 Code of Conduct
4 About Wells Fargo 39 Anti-harassment and anti-discrimination policy
5 A letter from the Chief Executive Officer 39 Prioritizing employee safety and health
6 Our approach 40 Governance
7 Sustainability 41 Corporate governance and ethics
8 2023 sustainability impact highlights 44 Risk management
9 Operations and supply chain 47 Customer and product responsibility
15 Customer and client support 48 Cybersecurity and privacy protection
21 Community impact 50 Policy advocacy
31 Employee support 51 Respecting human rights
32 Living our Expectations 52 Disclaimer and forward-looking statements
33 Learning and Development 55 Appendix
35 Compensating employees competitively 56 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals
35 Employee benefits 57 Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) index
38 Employee feedback 62 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) content index
38 Caring for employees in times of transition 69 Sustainable Finance Eligibility Criteria
39 Diversity, equity, and inclusion 75 Management’s assertion
76 Independent Accountants’ Review Report
Table of contents Introduction Sustainability Employee support Governance Appendix
Introduction
4 About Wells Fargo
5 A letter from the Chief Executive Officer
6 Our approach
3
Table of contents Introduction Sustainability Employee support Governance Appendix
About Wells Fargo
Wells Fargo & Company is a leading financial Cautionary notes: including the discussion under “Risk Factors”
services company that has approximately This document contains forward-looking in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
$1.9 trillion in assets. We provide a diversified statements about our business, including year ended December 31, 2023, and in our
set of banking, investment and mortgage discussion of the Company’s plans, objectives subsequent quarterly reports, as filed with
products and services, as well as consumer and strategies, and expectations for our the Securities and Exchange Commission
and commercial finance, through our four operations and business related to our and available on its website at www.sec.gov.1
reportable operating segments: Consumer environmental, social, and governance
Banking and Lending, Commercial Banking, activities. For additional information, Data herein is as of December 31, 2023,
Corporate and Investment Banking, and including about factors that could cause unless otherwise indicated.
Wealth and Investment Management. actual results to differ materially from our
Wells Fargo ranked No. 34 on Fortune’s 2024 expectations, refer to the Disclaimer and
rankings of America’s largest corporations. Forward-Looking Statements section of this
We ranked fourth in assets and third in the document and our reports filed with the
market value of our common stock among all Securities and Exchange Commission,
U.S. banks at December 31, 2023.
1 Wells Fargo has provided external links within this document for your convenience, but Wells Fargo does not endorse and is not responsible for the content, links, privacy policy, or security policy of these websites.
4
Table of contents Introduction Sustainability Employee support Governance Appendix
A letter from the Chief Executive Officer
At Wells Fargo, we are focused on building a sustainable, inclusive future by supporting housing affordability, small business growth,
financial health, and a low-carbon economy. Our customers and communities are experiencing rapidly changing opportunities and
challenges, and we are evolving to meet their needs.
We continue to be balanced in our approach to environmental, social, and governance (ESG) issues, and we recognize that consumers and
businesses want to do business with a company that has a strong reputation. A strong reputation is achieved not just from strong financial
performance, but from actively supporting employees, customers, and communities – especially those most in need.
Wells Fargo strives to have real impact in our communities and I’m proud of the work we do. I’m pleased to share Wells Fargo’s
Sustainability & Governance Report and hope you enjoy reading about the progress that we’ve made on our priorities and our ongoing
efforts to address today's challenges and prepare for tomorrow.
Charlie Scharf
Chief Executive Officer
Wells Fargo & Company
5
Table of contents Introduction Sustainability Employee support Governance Appendix
Our approach
Since our founding, Wells Fargo has continuously management, and employee well-being in Reporting on our efforts
evolved to meet the financial needs of our this report. In this report, we aim to provide more information
customers, clients, and communities. From on the progress toward our sustainability goals and
households to large businesses, in small towns Progressing our sustainability strategy priorities, continued integration of sustainability
to urban centers, they can depend on us for the As part of our overall sustainability strategy, into our business, support for communities and
financial tools they need to address today’s we have established a framework around several employees, and corporate governance activities.
challenges and prepare for tomorrow. sustainability topics where we can make a positive
impact by leveraging our expertise, size, and scale. We are proud of the progress we’ve made, and
Today, Wells Fargo is evolving to meet Our focused impact areas, categorized around we’re excited about the opportunities ahead.
environmental and social challenges, finding Climate Action and Community Impact, highlight
opportunities for meaningful impact, and opportunities to collaborate across our own
continuing to support the financial needs of our operations and with strategic community impact
customers. The transition toward a resilient, organizations. Underlying our sustainability
equitable, sustainable future is a journey for all, impact areas, we maintain a focus on vulnerable
across the broader economy. communities’ access to the opportunities
associated with a transition to a low-carbon
Reviewing our priorities economy. Reflecting on the progress of this
To inform our approach to environmental, strategy in 2023, a few highlights stand out across
social, and governance related efforts we our focused impact areas.
periodically review underlying topics related to
theses areas to help us understand which topics We are making an impact in our communities as
are most important to the Company and our we aim to address housing access and affordability,
stakeholders, and as a result should be prioritized. support small business growth, and increase
As part of these reviews we consider a range of financial health. We continue to scale clean energy
stakeholder viewpoints and assess our internal in our operations and provide solutions to help our
business strategy and sustainability impact customers do the same in their own sustainability
areas, as well as external voluntary standards, and resiliency efforts.
frameworks and industry best practices to help
us maintain a balanced approach to these issues. Wells Fargo plans to continue to evolve and play
The most recent results of this review are generally an important role in meeting the changing needs
consistent with previous assessments, and continue of our customers, clients, and communities in the
to inform our disclosures and other efforts. That is transition to a lower-carbon economy and in
why we have included topics such as sustainability supporting resilient communities for future
and climate, corporate governance and ethics, risk generations.
6
Table of contents Introduction Sustainability Employee support Governance Appendix
Sustainability
8 2023 Sustainability impact highlights
9 Operations and supply chain
15 Customer and client support
21 Community impact
7
Table of contents Introduction Sustainability Employee support Governance Appendix
2023 sustainability impact highlights
Awarded a
advised, or facilitated approximately
$7.5M Provided Credit Donated
Builders Alliance a ~$23M
grant to Habitat for $1.5M
Humanity International in sustainability-focused
grant to assist organizations grants to nonprofit
serving credit insecure individuals organizations
2030 Operational
Provided
Provided
$8.3M
sustainability progress*
~17K hours
GHG emissions
in grants to strengthen the deployment of Greenhouse Gas Reduction (Scope 1 and Scope 2) Energy
of mentorship for
Fund (GGRF) capital into low-income and disadvantaged communities
Connect to More℠ 36% 36%
participants of goal of goal
Waste Water
Originated, committed, advised, 73% 48%
Donated or facilitated approximately
Provided
of goal of goal
$650M+ $178B
$2.4B
Renewable energy
to help address housing in sustainable finance
in tax equity financing
access and affordability activities since 2021 6%
for wind and solar projects
since 2019
of goal
*For further information on our 2030 operational sustainability goals,
Community impact Climate action
please see our Operations and Supply Chain section of this report.
8
Table of contents Introduction Sustainability Employee support Governance Appendix
Operations and
2
supply chain
Advancing sustainability At the same time, we continued to explore to our employees where possible. In 2023,
across our operations programs to reduce waste and increase diversion we launched an initiative to reduce the sale
Across our operational footprint, Wells Fargo from landfills by decreasing material use at the of plastic bottled beverages from our food
is working to make progress toward our goals source, implementing composting, increasing service operations. We worked with our waste
listed below. For example, in 2023, we continued
recycling, and seeking other ways to lower management and food service vendors to find
our environmental impact. alternative packaging solutions such as cans,
replacing existing lighting with high-efficiency
cartons, and glass bottles, depending on the
options across our branches and other locations.
Some examples of our progress include reducing recycling infrastructure available in the market.
We also advanced our efforts to adopt sustainable
single-use plastic beverage containers in our
design principles to create more efficient and
offices and providing filtered water filling stations
comfortable spaces for our employees.
Wells Fargo has set operational sustainability goals for 2030
Reducing GHG Reducing total Reducing energy Reducing Meeting 100%
emissions (Scope 1 waste stream from usage from 2019 water usage of our annual
and Scope 2) from 2019 levels by 50%. levels by 50%. from 2019 purchased electricity
2019 levels by 70%. levels by 45%. consumption needs
with new renewable
sources.*
*Wells Fargo has been meeting 100% of its electricity consumption with renewable energy primarily with unbundled Renewable Energy Certificates from existing assets, with a goal to transition to long-term agreements that directly support new sources of renewable energy.
2 Environmental and energy use data included in this report is subject to measurement uncertainties resulting from limitations inherent in the nature and the methods used for determining such data.
9
Table of contents Introduction Sustainability Employee support Governance Appendix
Achieving 100% renewable energy
Wells Fargo promotes the use of clean, renewable energy within our facilities. Our energy, water, and waste reduction work complements our ongoing
efforts to transition to new renewable energy sources. Our renewable energy work is supported, in part, through Wells Fargo’s multiyear purchase
agreements for electricity from renewable sources.
Since 2017, we have matched 100% of our global electricity consumption in our operations with renewable energy, and we aim to continue to transition
to long-term contracts for new renewable energy sources to meet future needs.3
For Scope 1 GHG emissions that remain after our reduction efforts and Scope 2 (market-based) GHG emissions, Wells Fargo works closely with third-
party consultants with subject matter expertise to purchase carbon removal credits.4 With their support, we evaluate potential credit purchases against
specific quality criteria.
Renewable energy
Unit 2021 2022 2023
Total electricity consumed5 MWh 1,550,417 1,579,854 1,509,777
Total renewable energy purchased6 MWh 1,673,872 1,584,509 1,522,223
% of total electricity consumption covered by renewable energy
purchases7
% 108 100 101
% of renewable energy purchases sourced from new long-term
renewable energy projects3
% 4 6 6
3 Wells Fargo has been meeting 100% of its electricity consumption with renewable energy primarily with unbundled Renewable Energy Certificates from existing assets, with a goal to transition to long-term agreements that directly support new sources of renewable energy.
New sources of renewable energy are defined as assets where commercial operation was achieved no earlier than 12 months prior to contract execution.
4 For further information on carbon credits, please see our Information Relevant to the California Voluntary Carbon Market Disclosures Act section of our Climate Report, which can be found on our Goals and Reporting website.
5 Includes purchased electricity and self-supplied electricity generated through Wells Fargo’s on-site solar program.
6 Total renewable energy purchased includes self-supply renewable energy where Wells Fargo generates renewable energy from on-site solar installations, power purchase agreements, which are contracts for the purchase of power and associated Renewable Energy Certificates,
as well as Unbundled Renewable Energy Certificates, which are sold, delivered, or purchased separately from the electricity generated from the renewable resource.
7 Wells Fargo secured enough Renewable Energy Certificates to meet or exceed our annual consumption of purchased electricity.
10
Table of contents Introduction Sustainability Employee support Governance Appendix
Operational Performance Data
Energy usage
Unit 2019 (baseline) 2020 2021 2022 2023
Fuel (includes fuel oil, propane, and fuels for fleet vehicles) MWh 24,713 16,979 20,330 23,712 23,042
Natural gas MWh 383,277 353,183 310,483 321,539 296,898
Electricity8 MWh 1,816,629 1,654,354 1,550,417 1,579,854 1,509,777
District heating9 MWh 13,518 13,211 12,911 13,269 8,705
Total energy consumption MWh 2,238,137 2,037,727 1,894,141 1,938,375 1,838,422
Reduction in total energy consumption (from 2019
% — 9 15 13 18
baseline)
LEED®
buildings
Unit 2019 (baseline) 2020 2021 2022 2023
Cumulative square feet of LEED-certified projects10 # of square feet 43,896,577 44,521,605 44,941,226 46,779,524 47,597,653
Cumulative number of LEED-certified projects # of projects 834 907 912 917 919
8 Includes purchased electricity and self-supplied electricity generated through Wells Fargo’s on-site solar program.
9 District heating includes purchased steam.
10 Includes certifications and recertifications under all LEED rating systems for relevant leased and owned spaces.
11
Table of contents Introduction Sustainability Employee support Governance Appendix
Water
2019
Unit 2020 2021 2022 2023
(baseline)
Total water consumption (municipal water use) Cubic meters 7,729,753 6,678,849 5,454,839 6,326,450 6,066,842
Reduction in water consumption (from 2019 baseline) % — 14 30 18 22
Waste
2019
Unit 2020 2021 2022 2023
(baseline)
General recycling: plastic, metal, and cardboard Short tons 5,536 5,791 3,992 3,678 3,753
Other recycling/waste diversion Short tons 6,980 4,376 5,070 4,648 4,453
Paper recycled Short tons 40,092 24,356 21,203 21,624 20,106
Total recycling Short tons 52,608 34,523 30,265 29,950 28,312
Total waste to landfill Short tons 28,582 24,647 19,874 22,399 23,058
Total waste stream Short tons 81,190 59,170 50,139 52,349 51,370
Reduction in total waste stream (from 2019 baseline) % — 24 38 36 37
12
Table of contents Introduction Sustainability Employee support Governance Appendix
GHG emissions Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions
Wells Fargo calculates our operational Scope 1 (location and
market-based)11
and Scope 2 GHG emissions in accordance with
Unit12 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. Scope 1 emissions (baseline)
are direct emissions that occur from sources Total Scope 1 MTCO2e 86,602 78,087 73,319* 77,476* 82,410*
controlled or owned by an organization. Scope 2 Total Scope 2 (location)13 MTCO2e 771,327 694,011 569,633* 593,495* 558,616*
emissions are indirect GHG emissions that result
Total Scope 2 (market)13 MTCO2e 4,988 3,614 1,792* 4,424* 3,633*
from an organization’s use of purchased
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 (location) MTCO2e 857,929 772,098 642,952* 670,972* 641,026*
electricity, steam, heat, or cooling. Scope 3
emissions are all indirect emissions (not included
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 (market) MTCO2e 91,591 81,701 75,111* 81,901* 86,044*
in scope 2) that occur in the value chain of the Carbon credits purchased and retired14 MTCO2e 98,981 92,019 81,809* 82,414* 86,044*
reporting company, including both upstream and Remaining Scope 1 and Scope 2
downstream emissions. For the 2023 reporting
(market)15 MTCO2e 0 0 0* 0* 0*
Reduction in total Scope 1 and Scope 2
year, Wells Fargo engaged a third-party carbon
(location) GHG emissions (from 2019 % — 10 25 22 25
accounting software platform to perform GHG
baseline)
emissions calculations for Scope 1, Scope 2,
and Scope 3 (categories 3 and 7). Engagement
Scope 3
emissions16
of the third-party resulted in certain carbon
accounting methodology and emission factor Unit 2021* 2022* 2023*
changes for Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 Category 1: Purchased goods and services MTCO2e 1,429,619 1,300,698 1,415,876
(categories 3 and 7) which did not result in Category 2: Capital goods MTCO2e 348,249 293,289 455,831
significant changes in emissions. Therefore, prior
Category 3: Fuel and energy-related activities
period emissions have not been updated to reflect (not included in Scope 1 or 2)17 MTCO2e 121,357 123,938 228,465
the changes implemented in 2023. Category 5: Waste generated in operations MTCO2e 13,058 12,730 13,026
Category 6: Employee business travel
MTCO2e 4,795 27,403 38,354
(air travel only)
Category 7: Employee commuting (excluding
MTCO2e 218,795 289,051 253,813
remote work)
*Wells Fargo’s Statement of Greenhouse Gas Emissions, which can be found on our Goals and Reporting website, has been reviewed by an independent accountant for the years ended
December 31, 2021, 2022, and 2023.
11 Totals in this figure and others in this report may not add exactly due to rounding.
12 MTCO2e stands for metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent.
13 A location-based method reflects the average emissions intensity of grids on which energy consumption occurs (using grid average emission factor data). A market-based method reflects emissions from electricity that Wells Fargo has purposefully chosen. It derives emission factors from contractual
instruments, which include any type of contract between two parties for the sale and purchase of energy bundled with attributes about the energy generation, or for unbundled attribute claims.
14 For further information on carbon credits, please see our Information Relevant to the California Voluntary Carbon Market Disclosures Act section of our Climate Report, which can be found on our Goals and Reporting website.
15 As part of its journey toward net zero, Wells Fargo has implemented carbon reduction strategies and purchased energy attribute certificates and carbon credits sufficient to cover its total Scope 1 and Scope 2 (market-based) emissions for 2023.
16 This report includes relevant Scope 3 categories for which Wells Fargo calculated emissions for the year ended December 31, 2023.
17 In 2023, we updated our calculation methodology to reflect a change in emission factors.
13
Table of contents Introduction Sustainability Employee support Governance Appendix
Engaging with our suppliers and Further, the following table shows how we’ve
stakeholders on sustainability engaged certain suppliers to report their
We regularly engage with suppliers and other environmental data through the CDP (formerly
stakeholders on a range of environmental, social, Carbon Disclosure Project) climate questionnaire.
and governance topics. In 2023, we held This helps us better understand their emissions
approximately 50 forums, reaching more than profile and approach to climate resiliency.
5,000 internal and external participants. We’re also
working across our supply chain and throughout our
Wells Fargo’s Supplier Code of Conduct, which
lines of business to help reduce carbon impacts.
we review periodically and update as needed,
can be found on our Goals and Reporting website.
At Wells Fargo, we expect our suppliers to operate It outlines our expectation that suppliers not
in a way that is consistent with our Supplier Code only comply with applicable laws, regulations,
of Conduct (PDF), all applicable laws and and contract terms, but also conduct themselves
regulations, and contract terms. As we work with with the highest standards of ethical business
suppliers to understand their environmental and practices.
social considerations, we encourage them to
implement systems designed to mitigate negative
environmental and social impacts.
Integrating ESG into supplier engagement
Unit 2023
Suppliers invited to participate in CDP survey # of suppliers 372
Supplier CDP survey participation18 # of suppliers 234
Responding suppliers who have self-reported
science-based targets for Scope 1 and Scope 2 # of suppliers 94
emissions
18 Completing the CDP survey is a voluntary effort undertaken by companies at their discretion.
14
Table of contents Introduction Sustainability Employee support Governance Appendix
Customer and
19
client support
As a bank, we have an opportunity to make an From 2021 to 2023, Wells Fargo originated,
impact through the work we do with our clients committed, advised, or facilitated approximately
and customers in support of their sustainability- $178 billion in sustainable finance activities,
related business drivers. representing approximately 36% of our goal
to deploy $500 billion of sustainable finance
Making progress toward our between 2021 and 2030. Our sustainable finance
sustainable finance goal activity is divided into three categories: financing
We continue to make progress on our goal to aligned to common industry sustainability-related
deploy $500 billion in sustainable finance by 2030. standards and frameworks (“standard-aligned
Set in 2021, this goal is one component of our sustainable finance”), environmental finance, and
broader sustainability strategy. Wells Fargo social finance. For more details on each category
identifies and enables sustainable finance please see our Sustainable Finance Eligibility
opportunities through our capabilities across our Criteria in the Appendix of this report.
lines of business, solutions, and broad range of Approximately 57% of our progress through 2023
products. Sustainable finance at Wells Fargo supported standard-aligned sustainable finance,
supports both environmental and social while close to 27% supported environmental
sustainability activities. Similar macroeconomic finance, and about 16% supported social finance.
factors that influence broader financial markets
also impact our sustainable financing. While we do For each of our first three years of progress
not expect our progress to be linear, our Company toward our $500 billion goal, we obtained limited
continues to support our clients, customers, and assurance on our assertion of the total amount of
communities, especially as sustainable activities sustainable finance activities originated,
become more integrated into the fabric of our committed, advised, or facilitated that meet the
economy. criteria. For more information about the limited
assurance, please see the Independent Accountants'
The following figure provides an overview of Review Report in the Appendix.
progress toward our $500 billion goal (see next
page) measured using our Sustainable Finance
Eligibility Criteria (“the criteria”), which are
included in the Appendix of this report.
19 In this section Wells Fargo references information from third-party sources, Wells Fargo cannot guarantee accuracy of this information.
15
Table of contents Introduction Sustainability Employee support Governance Appendix
Sustainable finance progress*
(2021-2023)
Sustainability-linked Sustainability bonds
loans and bonds $21.1B (12%)
$58.7B (33%)
Green loans
Other Environmental and bonds
$0.5B (<1%) $178B $18.0B (10%)
Pollution prevention and
control and circular economy
$1.6B (1%)
Green buildings
Social loans
$6.3B (4%)
and bonds
$4.2B (2%)
Energy efficiency
$7.3B (4%)
Housing
affordability
$18.1B (10%)
Clean
transportation
$15.7B (9%) Socioeconomic
advancement and
Energy empowerment
generation Other Social $9.5B (5%)
$16.1B (9%) $0.7B (<1%)
*See Sustainable Finance Eligibility Criteria in the Appendix of the this report for more details. Showing 2021-2023 sustainable finance activities that have been originated, committed, advised, or facilitated that meet the Sustainable Finance Eligibility Criteria.
Totals may not sum due to rounding. Showing categories with ≥ $0.1B, anything less than 1% is categorized as either “Other Environmental”, which includes sustainable water and wastewater management, or “Other Social” which includes education and healthcare.
16
Table of contents Introduction Sustainability Employee support Governance Appendix
Supporting the transition to more We also work with our clients to bring more Fleet electrification is often a key lever for clients
sustainable operating models sustainable financing options to the marketplace. pursuing sustainability goals. Wells Fargo is
Across the economy, many companies are Wells Fargo worked with Panama-based BAC scaling the adoption of electric vehicles (EV) in
navigating complex transitions to achieve International Bank, Inc. to arrange a $270 million commercial fleets by providing financing for a
their environmental, social, and business goals. broadly syndicated loan facility, which included variety of zero- or low-emissions vehicles and
We work with our clients to develop thoughtful a sustainability tranche of $135 million. The charging structures for our customers. We offer
financing structures that help advance their sustainability tranche enabled BAC International leasing products on commercial vehicles that
goals, address transition-related challenges, Bank, Inc. to use the proceeds primarily to finance monetize the Inflation Reduction Act (IRA)
and leverage transition-related opportunities. renewable energy projects in the Central Section 45W tax credit, which results in a lower
We believe we have built the track record and American region. interest rate for the lessee. We have also
expertise to make Wells Fargo among the leaders developed a streamlined, point-of-sale financing
in sustainable finance. In 2023, according to Transitioning to more sustainable operating option for EV vendors to help facilitate EV
Bloomberg, Wells Fargo ranked third in models includes both social and environmental deployment.
sustainability-linked loan bookrunning in the
aspects of sustainability. In 2023, the
United States.
International Finance Corporation (IFC), a
member of the World Bank Group, issued a social
At the request of our clients, Wells Fargo may bond totaling $1.5 billion in proceeds. Wells Fargo
structure transactions to support their acted as joint lead manager on the transaction.
sustainability goals. For example, Teradata The transaction represents IFC’s largest-ever
Corporation set a 2025 goal to reduce both its social bond. Bond proceeds will fund a diverse
Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions by 34% from range of social projects, including affordable basic
a 2021 baseline. To support their goals, Teradata infrastructure (e.g., clean drinking water, sewers,
worked with us to add an ESG amendment to its sanitation, transport, and energy), access to
$400 million credit line and a $500 million term essential services (e.g., healthcare, financing, and
loan. We crafted a deal structure that includes financial services), affordable housing, supporting
key performance indicators (KPIs) selected women-owned small- and medium-sized
by Teradata. The first KPI is focused on the businesses that lack access to finance, food
Company’s Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions- security, and supporting companies that
reduction goals. incorporate people at the base of the economic
pyramid into their value chain.
17
Table of contents Introduction Sustainability Employee support Governance Appendix
Scaling clean energy Proceeds from this financing will be allocated to Battery storage deployment is critical to
Wells Fargo provides the capital needed to two projects: advancing clean-energy adoption. Wells Fargo has
support the expansion of sectors aimed at making the capabilities to support our clients in bringing
industry more environmentally sustainable. • Morrow Lake is an approximately 200 MW large-scale battery energy storage projects to the
Tax equity financing, which lowers the cost of solar electricity-generation facility located in grid. For example, Wells Fargo acted as the sole
renewable energy by allowing developers to Frio County, Texas. Construction on the rating advisor and coordinating lead arranger on
efficiently realize tax credits, is a cornerstone of project began in mid-2023, and Morrow Lake a $2.4 billion construction and term loan for a
the renewable energy market. Launched in 2006, Solar is expected to be operational by late 2024. portfolio of solar and battery projects for The
our Renewable Energy & Environmental Finance AES Corporation. The two solar-plus-storage
(REEF) team has years of experience in helping • Antelope Valley Battery Energy Storage projects and one solar project in the portfolio
clients navigate these often complex structures. System (BESS) project is an approximately are anticipated to total 855 MW and 2,400
REEF provided approximately $2.4 billion in tax 126 MW, 504 MWh stand-alone facility MWh, respectively. Plans also call for a 14-mile
equity financing for wind and solar projects in colocated with another solar project in transmission line that will connect the project to
2023, bringing REEF’s lifetime investment to Kern County, California. The project is Southern California Edison’s Windhub Substation.
designed to support the resiliency and
$18.2 billion. This included a tax equity
reliability of the California electrical grid.
transaction with Avangrid, Inc. and Copenhagen
Infrastructure Partners for a large offshore wind
project, Vineyard Wind 1.
First-of-its-kind
In addition to our tax equity offerings, Wells Fargo Tax equity transaction for a large offshore wind project in Massachusetts with Vineyard Wind 1
is also a capital provider and advisor to renewable
energy companies looking to scale their business.
In 2023, Wells Fargo served as the Sole Green
Loan Coordinator for Leeward Renewable
Energy’s $407.6 million green bridge loan to
finance the initial construction costs of greenfield
solar and battery storage projects. Leeward is a
U.S.-based renewable energy company that owns
and operates utility scale wind, solar, and energy
storage facilities across nine states, totaling
approximately 2,700 MW of generating capacity.
We also supported Leeward in the structuring of a
Green Loan Framework, which defines the eligible
green activities the loan can be used for, the
management of the loan proceeds, and the annual
impact reporting requirements.
18
Table of contents Introduction Sustainability Employee support Governance Appendix
Adopting more sustainable options Our Wealth and Investment Management (WIM)
Wells Fargo supports our individual customers’ financial advisors support clients who are
Supporting more environmentally
actions to adopt clean-energy technologies and interested in integrating sustainability or personal
sustainable products for their homes and small values into their investments. WIM clients have
sustainable
cities*
businesses. For example, in 2023 we financed access to a broad suite of investment solutions Wells Fargo financing supports projects
more than one in six EV loans in the United States. and strategies that integrate values alignment, that help cities and regions across the
impact investing, and ESG analysis. WIM also United States in their efforts to become
As an exclusive financing partner for the HVAC offers clients analysis of their investment
more environmentally sustainable. In 2023,
manufacturers Trane Technologies and Carrier exposures to help tailor their investment
Wells Fargo served as the Senior Manager
Corporation, we provide financing for customers, portfolios to their personal goals and values.
for the Washington Metropolitan Area
including those who install ENERGY STAR-
Transit Authority’s (Metro) sustainability
qualified, efficient HVAC systems from those We encourage consumers to adopt electronic
manufacturers. ENERGY STAR appliances can statements to reduce paper volume. For example, bonds, which totaled $797.8 million.
reduce costs and be more efficient for customers. we offer paperless account statements through These were the first Metro bonds to secure
our digital channel, paperless options at ATMs, a Sustainability-Climate Transition
and digital account-opening processes. We designation from the International Capital
implemented a new digital marketing strategy in Market Association. Metro is one of the
2021 to increase awareness and drive consumers
largest transit organizations in the U.S.,
to adopt electronic statements versus mailed
with a service area of approximately
paper statements.
1,500 square miles across Washington, D.C.,
Maryland, and Virginia. In Metro’s fiscal year
2023, Metro carried 199.7 million riders
across its rail, bus, and MetroAccess
services. The bonds will fund Metro capital
projects, including bus garage rehabilitation
and replacements, bus fleet replacement
and zero-emission bus transition, automatic
train control equipment upgrades, traction
power upgrades, work on Metro’s existing
fleet of trains and its next generation of
railcars, and rail station LED lighting
improvements.
*In this section Wells Fargo references information from publicly available third-party
sources, Wells Fargo cannot guarantee accuracy of this information.
19
Table of contents Introduction Sustainability Employee support Governance Appendix
Understanding nature considerations
We understand that protecting and conserving
biodiversity, maintaining ecosystems, and
managing natural resources are important
factors for global sustainability.
In 2023, we conducted a nature landscape
assessment to better understand nature-related
considerations and practices across our industry.
In support of our corporate clients, we are
working directly with them to support their
understanding of nature and biodiversity impacts
and dependencies of their operations. This can
support dialogue on sustainable financing options
suited to help them achieve their biodiversity
and nature-related objectives.
20
Table of contents Introduction Sustainability Employee support Governance Appendix
20
Community impact
Wells Fargo takes a thoughtful approach to
philanthropy in support of programs for
2023 philanthropic giving by focus
area21,22
communities that need it most. Through our
businesses and the Wells Fargo Foundation,
we strive to align our resources and expertise to
Small business growth 18%
make a positive impact in communities, address
complex societal issues, and help build a more
inclusive, sustainable future for all. We aspire to Financial health 13%
strengthen historically underserved communities
through investments in pathways to economic
advancement and generational wealth. In addition,
we focus our social impact on supporting
$300M
nonprofits that strategically align with our
Sustainability 8%
funding priorities: housing access and
Housing access and
affordability, small business growth, financial
affordability 40%
health, and sustainability. In addition, the
Human and social services 6%
Company supports community needs in local
markets. Education 4%
Civic engagement 2%
Workforce development 2%
Other 6% Arts and culture 1%
20 In this section Wells Fargo references information from third-party sources, Wells Fargo cannot guarantee accuracy of this information.
21 Priority focus areas are bolded. Focus area categorization is based on the primary assigned focus area of each grant at the time of application. Grants with multiple focus areas are sown only under their primary area of focus.
22 Numbers are rounded to the nearest whole percentage.
21
Table of contents Introduction Sustainability Employee support Governance Appendix
Improving housing access The 2023 Wells Fargo Builds program also
and affordability awarded $1.4 million in grants to Rebuilding
Wells Fargo strives to innovate solutions that Together, allowing approximately 90 homes in
increase access to affordable, sustainable, and 49 communities across the country to receive
wealth-generating housing for vulnerable essential home repairs and safety modifications.
populations and communities.
Since 2010, Wells Fargo has donated more than
Since the beginning of 2019, we’ve donated more $18 million to Rebuilding Together and its
than $650 million to help address housing access and affiliates in other communities to support
affordability in the country, including supporting rebuilding efforts across the country with a focus
affordable rentals and home ownership to keep on helping veterans, older adults, people with
people housed. disabilities, families with children, and victims of
disaster remain in their homes.
Partnering to construct and
repair affordable housing Housing Affordability Breakthrough Challenge
In 2023, the Wells Fargo Foundation announced The Wells Fargo Foundation expanded its
new commitments with Habitat for Humanity commitment to housing affordability through
International and Rebuilding Together, two another $20 million competition with Enterprise
national nonprofits focused on housing those Community Partners to find housing solutions
in need. focused on three categories: financing,
construction, and access and resident support.
Through the 2023 Wells Fargo Builds program, The winning solutions included a workforce
Habitat for Humanity International received a training program that prepares students for
$7.5 million grant, enabling local Habitat for homeownership; a new way of financing housing
Humanity affiliates to build and repair more than in rural communities like the Mississippi Delta;
360 homes nationwide, including accessibility and a new construction technology that reduces
modifications to meet the needs of low-income the carbon footprint of multifamily buildings.
older adults and people with disabilities.
Since 2010, Wells Fargo and the Wells Fargo
Foundation have donated more than $129 million
to Habitat for Humanity International and local
affiliates, including grant funding for new home
construction and repairs, disaster response and
rebuilding efforts, and Habitat’s Aging in Place
program to enable people to remain in their
homes as they age.
22
Table of contents Introduction Sustainability Employee support Governance Appendix
Supporting small business
growth23
Venture Fellows program
A key pillar of our community impact work With a grant awarded by the Wells Fargo
focuses on improving access to capital, networks, Foundation, Larta Institute successfully
and knowledge for underserved entrepreneurs. established its Venture Fellows program, which
sources cleantech innovations directly from
This included working with Silver Lining to launch entrepreneurs in underserved communities.
their Small and Medium-sized Businesses (SMB) The program aims to help diverse innovators
Mental Health Series, a public-engagement scale their ideas and help their communities
campaign aimed at connecting with small business become more resilient in response to the
owners to help them realize the significance of impacts of climate change. In its first year,
their contributions to their families, communities, the Venture Fellows program supported
and the economy. Feedback gleaned from the 14 early-stage startups with technical assistance,
small business owners resulted in the creation of a mentoring, access to capital, and legal services.
free SMB De-stress Guide to help entrepreneurs
cope with stress and avoid burnout. Small Business Resource Navigator
The Community Reinvestment Fund, USA used
Connect to More℠
a Wells Fargo Open for Business grant to
Developed in partnership with the Nasdaq
successfully launch its Small Business Resource
Entrepreneurial Center, the Connect to More℠
Navigator, an online portal helping connect
program provides women entrepreneurs access to
small- business owners to potential financing
networking opportunities, coaching, and a library
options and technical assistance through
of tailored resources to assist them to overcome
Community Development Financial Institutions
distinct challenges. The program includes the
(CDFIs) across the United States. Since its
opportunity to leverage the Center’s signature
launch, the Small Business Resource Navigator has
12-week Milestone Circles24 mentorship program.
introduced nearly 2,500 small businesses to CDFIs
By the end of 2023, Connect to More℠
for potential credit opportunities and technical
participants collectively received approximately
assistance services. This online tool simplifies and
17,000 hours of mentorship support and reported
streamlines the capital process for entrepreneurs,
tremendous benefits because of the program.
helping them quickly and effectively identify
potential options.
23 In this section Wells Fargo references information from publicly available third-party sources, Wells Fargo cannot guarantee accuracy of this information.
24 Figures related to Milestone Circles are self-reported to Wells Fargo by grant recipients and as such, Wells Fargo cannot guarantee the accuracy of the totals.
23
Table of contents Introduction Sustainability Employee support Governance Appendix
Open for Business Fund Open for Business Fund program impact
Wells Fargo established the Open for Business (through 2023)26
Fund by voluntarily donating all gross processing
fees from PPP loans made in 2020 —
approximately $420 million to provide grants for
Community Development Financial Institutions and
~337K
other nonprofit organizations. Since its launch in
2020, the multiyear Open for Business Fund has
Businesses served
aimed to provide small business owners with
access to capital and resources to help them
navigate the ups and downs of the economy.
Through December 31, 2023, the initiative has
deployed the grant funds to nonprofits focused
79% 53% 71% ~461K 1.1M
on serving small businesses at the community
level, with an emphasis on assisting diverse small-
business owners. Funded nonprofits leveraged the Businesses Businesses Businesses Jobs created Hours of
Open for Business Fund to raise more than $2.2 served served served that or preserved technical
billion to help small businesses scale their that are that are are owned assistance
enterprises.25
racially women by low- to provided
or ethnically owned moderate-
diverse income
owned individuals
Passing learnings onto others
The spirit of entrepreneurship can encourage small business owners to extend their resources to support others. Stephanie Vasquez, owner of
Fair Trade Café in Phoenix, is an example. She received a small business loan through the Open for Business program for her cafe, as a member
of the Arizona Hispanic Chamber of Commerce and in partnership with Raza Development Fund. She then took fellow business owners under
her wing to help them learn how to scale their businesses through her nonprofit organization, Empowering Latina Leaders in Arizona.
25 Figures related to the Open for Business Fund are self-reported to Wells Fargo by grant recipients and as such, Wells Fargo cannot guarantee the accuracy of the totals.
26 Open For Business grant recipients report on cumulative impact data for up to three years following receipt of an Open For Business grant. Impact data will continue to be tracked through early 2025.
24
Table of contents Introduction Sustainability Employee support Governance Appendix
Supporting financial health • Credit Builders Alliance Capitalizing Credit
Wells Fargo aims to open pathways to economic Deserts program: Credit Builders Alliance
advancement in our communities, with a special received a $1.5 million grant to assist
focus on investing in diverse and low- to organizations serving credit-insecure
moderate-income communities. We collaborate individuals in six states identified as credit
with trusted industry and community groups to deserts, which are generally lower-income
develop programs that offer improved financial communities where an above-average
security for the long term. number of people don’t have credit scores
and lack access to mainstream, lower-interest
Our efforts to build an inclusive economy include sources of borrowing money. The program
programs and resources that help increase provides access to training, tools, and
equitable access to economic opportunity and support for organizations to better address Finding success with help from the
enable individuals to increase their savings, reduce their clients’ needs. International Rescue Committee
debt, secure credit, and acquire assets in pursuit
International Rescue Committee, which is funded
of their financial goals. Many of these resources • Compass Working Capital: With a
by our Financial Capability grant program:
are available through the Wells Fargo Financial $3.45 million multiyear grant commitment,
Arriving in California from Afghanistan in 2017,
Health hub. Wells Fargo became a leading funder of the
Palwasha brought an unwavering determination
strategic growth campaign for Compass
to build a better future for her children in the U.S.
Working Capital, a leader in leveraging the
federal Family Self-Sufficiency program to She sought to open her own childcare business,
11.9M
custom
.
ers accessed their
help improve the financial health of families but she was unbanked, had no credit, and lacked
free FICO® scores
living in public and subsidized housing. the financial stability to become a business
provided by Wells Fargo
owner. After receiving financial coaching through
Additionally, from 2018 to 2023 the Wells Fargo
the International Rescue Committee’s Pathways
Financial Capability and Credit-Building grant
program, Palwasha was able to open checking
programs donated more than $36 million to
In addition, the Wells Fargo Foundation and savings accounts, and obtain a credit-
grantees in support of financial coaching and
strategically supports nonprofits to help unbanked credit-building programs. These programs27 building loan. After making payments toward
individuals find the resources and take the steps
have helped people increase savings by a
her loan, she was approved for an unsecured
necessary to build credit and move into the financial
collective $41 million and reduce debt by nearly credit card. After attending additional tax,
mainstream. Key programs supported through
$77 million. They’ve also helped 83,000 people credit-building, budgeting, and banking
grants in 2023 include:
establish or improve their credit scores, and workshops, Palwasha received a business
33,000 people acquire bank accounts or other license and opened her childcare business,
financial assets.
doubling her household income and building
a brighter future for her family.
.
27 Programs have self-reported data and outcomes provided here.
25
Table of contents Introduction Sustainability Employee support Governance Appendix
Deploying sustainability-focused Establishing the Communities Reimagining Promoting urban forestry to confront urban
philanthropy Energy (CoRE) initiative at the National heat islands
Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL) We also provided support for Conservation Law
Wells Fargo leverages its philanthropy to support
In addition to providing grants directed to local Foundation (CLF) to accelerate efforts to grow
an equitable transition to a low-carbon economy
organizations, we also support the development of and maintain urban forests, which can play a role
with an emphasis on mitigating climate impacts
studies and research frameworks for key national in promoting physical and mental health, as well
and expanding sustainable finance solutions in
intermediaries. With our support NREL launched its as influencing energy needs for heating and
low- and moderate-income communities.
CoRE initiative, a first-of-its-kind hub for inclusive cooling buildings. CLF has noted that this work
Improving climate resiliency
and equitable research that seeks to provide support can benefit historically underserved populations,
to low-income communities as they build and pursue who often reside in areas with lower existing
One priority of our sustainability philanthropy
energy-transition strategies. NREL’s work with these tree canopies.
efforts is on improving climate resiliency in
communities will also help to inform its broader
historically underserved communities. Severe
efforts, especially around applied clean energy
weather events can cause significant property
research and innovation.
damage, but physical impacts are just one aspect.
Climate change can also affect livelihoods and
households, particularly when those affected lack
the financial means to respond to such crises.
26
Table of contents Introduction Sustainability Employee support Governance Appendix
Accelerating and broadening cleantech adoption
Even though many low-carbon technologies are considered deployment-ready, barriers to adoption persist, especially for low- to moderate-income
communities. Our cleantech-related grant making seeks to directly address these barriers, with the goal of accelerating adoption and broadening access
to the various benefits of low-carbon technologies.
In July 2023, we announced our 12th IN2 cohort, comprised of seven sustainable
agriculture startups with solutions aiming to address the climate mitigation and
adaption needs of global food systems. Each startup received up to $250,000 in
non-dilutive funding and will work alongside researchers at the Donald Danforth
Plant Science Center in St. Louis, the world’s largest independent plant science
research institute.
The Wells Fargo Innovation Incubator (IN2)
Two of the startups participating in the cohort are highlighted below:
Established in 2014 in partnership with NREL,
IN2 is a cleantech incubator that helps early-
InnerPlant (Davis, California)
stage startups develop and deploy innovative,
technology-based sustainability solutions. Develops seed technology to access the natural response pathways of plants and
IN2 provides cleantech startups with technical code crops to communicate early and specific stresses (e.g., drought) via easy-to-
assistance and access to labs and equipment, with collect optical signals. The technology helps farmers understand plant needs and
the goal of demonstrating technical feasibility and prescribe the right amount of fertilizer and crop-protection products at the optimal
market relevance for high-potential solutions in
time.
priority sectors (commercial and residential real
estate and agriculture).
HabiTerre (St. Louis)
IN2 also engages a network of 60+ Channel Uses remote sensing, process models, and artificial intelligence to evaluate past,
Partners across the U.S. to support an accelerated, present, and future cropland performance, including net GHG emissions, soil-carbon
equity-focused climate transition. The IN2 sequestration, crop rotation, management history, yield, water use, and nutrient
portfolio now includes 72 companies that have dynamic.
raised more than $2.06 billion in external follow-
on funding, equivalent to an average of more than
$101 for every $1 awarded through IN2.
27
Table of contents Introduction Sustainability Employee support Governance Appendix
Identifying justice, equity, diversity, and Preparing nonprofit intermediaries to Wells Fargo provided a $1.6M grant to these
inclusion best practices for cleantech deploy GGRF funds organizations so that their work in racial justice,
In 2023, Wells Fargo funded Elemental To help nonprofit intermediaries prepare to receive affordable housing, small business, and other issue
Excelerator's landscape analysis of justice, equity, and deploy GGRF funding, we provided $8.3 million areas could integrate a climate focus. The grant will
diversity, and inclusion (JEDI) practices and shared in technical assistance and capacity-building grants support a climate vulnerability assessment and the
needs across the cleantech innovation ecosystem. to strengthen organizations’ knowledge on topics development of a strategy positioning for their
like developing clean energy finance products. member organizations to respond on behalf of
After conducting a survey of current practices,
their communities to various climate funding and
Elemental convened representatives from 26 This work included supporting GGRF applicants policy opportunities.
cleantech accelerator and investor organizations to Climate United and the Coalition for Green Capital,
share opportunities to deepen practices toward the as well as partnering with the University of New Demonstrating how IRA incentives can
goal of improving access to emerging cleantech Hampshire on a $1.2 million grant to deliver be used to decarbonize affordable housing
solutions by historically disadvantaged clean energy finance training to the community In 2023, Wells Fargo supported the National
communities. development financial institutions sector and to Housing Trust with a $1 million grant to launch
build out lending tools. The training reached 95 the IRA Bootcamp for affordable housing
Key opportunities that were identified included
financial institutions who learned about leveraging developers and state housing finance agencies.
enhanced preparation for traditionally excluded
IRA incentives for building decarbonization, loan The purpose of the affordable housing developers
founders to secure investments, incorporating
product design, and business planning for training was to provide technical assistance on
lived experiences into hiring practices, and decarbonization lending.29 federal decarbonization programs, such as the U.S.
improved case-making through communications
Department of Housing and Urban Development
and storytelling through a JEDI lens. Helping community-based organizations (HUD) Green and Resilient Retrofit Program,
access clean energy capital for low-income
to help developers access potential subsidies
Supporting equitable implementation communities
available for their projects. The trainings for state
of the Inflation Reduction Act28 Another area we focus our sustainable philanthropy
housing finance agencies focused on aligning
The IRA has catalyzed climate-related activity on is equitable access to climate solutions. Due to
federal incentives with each state’s affordable
in the U.S. In addition to the new incentives and social and economic factors, historically underserved
housing programs to enhance both existing and
opportunities it has created for private capital, the communities are often at greatest risk from the
new funding features designed to help individuals
IRA has also established new programs intended impacts of climate change. We support efforts to
stay in their homes long term.
to support historically underserved communities. give these communities an active voice in the
The largest of these programs, the Greenhouse development of solutions.
Gas Reduction Fund (GGRF), is expected to award
$27 billion in 2024 to nonprofit intermediaries (e.g., The National Urban League, UnidosUS, and National
green banks and community development financial Coalition for Asian Pacific American Community
institutions) that will lend and provide funding for an Development are national membership
array of decarbonization projects, including many in organizations serving African American, Latinx, and
low-income and disadvantaged communities. Asian American and Pacific Islander communities.
28 In this section Wells Fargo references information from publicly available third-party sources, Wells Fargo cannot guarantee accuracy of this information.
29 Figures related to clean energy finance training are self-reported to Wells Fargo by grant recipients as such, Wells Fargo cannot guarantee the accuracy of the totals.
28
Table of contents Introduction Sustainability Employee support Governance Appendix
Volunteering and giving
to amplify our impacts
830,000
Our employees have long supported our
communities and the causes we and they care
about both through financial contributions and
employee service hours
volunteer service and commitments. Wells Fargo
is dedicated to raising awareness of sustainable
and social-impact opportunities and supporting
employee engagement in their communities —
providing flexibility for employees to serve in
ways that speak to them. The Company also
offers eligible employees 16 hours of paid
volunteer time each year to serve their causes.
Volunteering in 2023: highlights
Following the 2022 launch of our Employee
Impact teams, which connect employees to
local volunteer opportunities, Wells Fargo saw
a 20% participation rate in overall membership
across our 53 Employee Impact teams. Employee
Impact teams raise awareness of our philanthropic
priorities and elevate the visibility of sustainability
while providing flexibility for employees to serve
around their personal interests. These teams
promote key sustainability and social impact
issues, and community involvement. They lead
and organize activities such as educational
opportunities, operational projects, volunteer
events, membership recruitment, and other
activities.
$14M
provided by employees to eligible charities through our Community Care Portal in 2023
29
Table of contents Introduction Sustainability Employee support Governance Appendix
In addition, we aim to amplify the generosity
“I can’t thank you all enough for the [Global Fellows] support.
of our employees through the Wells Fargo
Community Care Grants program. Community Both teams did an incredible job and provided great insight and
Care Grants are philanthropic dollars provided
support. These have been two of the best volunteer-driven
by Wells Fargo that employees can direct to
organizations of their choosing. Employees may ‘consulting’ projects that I’ve been involved with in my 15 years
qualify for up to $2,000 in Community Care Grants
at W!se. The enthusiasm, teamwork, analytical skill set, hard work,
per year for their preferred eligible charities.
and creativity were all on full display every time we met with the
Now in its second year, the Welcome Home
two teams. It was a true pleasure to work with them. Thank you!”
Program seeks to create more affordable and
sustainable homes and communities through a
month-long, company-wide volunteer initiative.
David J. Anderson, W!se President and CEO,
In 2023, over 200 different charity partners
received direct volunteer support from A nonprofit that aims to improve economic mobility by developing financial literacy
employees, more than doubling the number
of nonprofit partners served in 2022. Over the
course of five weeks, the program saw more
than 7,300 employees volunteer more than
34,000 hours across 443 opportunities.
The Global Fellows Program, executed in partnership Wells Fargo developed a “pro bono marathon”,
with the Grameen Foundation, connects Wells Fargo in which 51 Wells Fargo employees provided Volunteering our talents to
employees with nonprofit partners in the U.S. and free professional services to 12 Wells Fargo support nature and biodiversity
beyond. This program helps selected organizations Foundation rural-serving grant recipients. In addition to leveraging their expertise to
in under resourced communities by utilizing assist entrepreneurs and small businesses,
Wells Fargo employees’ unique talents and expertise Over the course of two to three days, Wells Fargo Wells Fargo employees engaged in other
to support the needs of these nonprofits. In 2023, employee volunteers worked as virtual teams with
efforts to support nature and biodiversity.
teams comprising 84 Wells Fargo employees used nonprofit partners to develop a discrete solution
In 2023, our employees volunteered with
their professional skills to solve a business problem to an organizational challenge.
the Billion Oyster Project, an effort to
for 15 organizations.
restore oyster reefs in New York Harbor
through public-education initiatives. The
Wells Fargo expanded our skills-based volunteer
programming in 2023 beyond the Global Fellows volunteers helped build reef structures,
Program through a new partnership with Taproot prepared shells for hatching, sorted and
Foundation, which helps connect mission-driven counted baby oysters, and participated in
organizations with skilled volunteers. educational activities.
30
Table of contents Introduction Sustainability Employee support Governance Appendix
Employee support
32 Living our Expectations
33 Learning and Development
35 Compensating employees competitively
35 Employee benefits
38 Employee feedback
38 Caring for employees in times of transition
39 Diversity, equity, and inclusion
39 Code of Conduct
39 Anti-harassment and anti-discrimination policy
39 Prioritizing employee safety and health
31
Table of contents Introduction Sustainability Employee support Governance Appendix
Employee support
Our people are what set Wells Fargo apart and Living our Expectations
are critical to our success. We continue to invest At the foundation of Wells Fargo’s culture is a
in our employees by offering market-competitive
set of core Expectations that play a vital role in
compensation, career-development
the strength of our Company, and our ongoing
opportunities, a broad array of benefits, and
commitment to attracting, retaining, and
strong work-life programs. We provide all eligible
developing the best people to propel our
full- and part-time employees with a
transformation journey. Our Company
comprehensive set of benefits designed to
Expectations establish the highest standards of
support their physical, emotional, and financial
integrity and operational excellence and guide
health to help them make the most of their well-
how we collaborate and execute as a team;
being. We are dedicated to recruitment and career
embrace our differences; simplify and improve
development practices that support our
the work that we deliver; and develop, recognize,
employees and promote diversity throughout
and inspire our employees to achieve performance
our workforce, including leadership positions.
excellence. We celebrate and hold employees
accountable for demonstrating behaviors in
alignment with these Expectations throughout the
year – they are a cornerstone of our performance
management and recognition programs.
Wells Fargo Expectations
32
Table of contents Introduction Sustainability Employee support Governance Appendix
Employee support
Learning and Development Manager development and support
Wells Fargo invests in the development of our We recognize that having effective managers
employees and managers. During 2023, we is key to employee engagement and retention.
invested approximately $200 million in a variety In 2023, we introduced a Monthly Manager Series,
of employee Learning and Development an ongoing initiative to put timely information
programs, including functional training, and resources in the hands of leaders throughout
regulatory compliance, leadership and the year, as well as educate and reinforce the
professional development, and early career managers’ role in the performance management
development programs. The curriculum includes cycle activities. The sessions allow managers to
90 unique training programs for new hires. apply external thinking to their daily work. Topics
were timed to deliver relevant information when
Global Early Careers it would be most useful. Approximately 13,400
In 2023, the Global Early Careers team continued managers participated in the program in 2023.
to make progress toward its strategic goals to
attract, develop, and retain a best-in-class In addition, we launched and delivered live
pipeline of talent across Wells Fargo. We continue webinars that include internal and external
delivering on traditional talent programs at the expert speakers on key topics throughout the
intern, analyst, and associate levels while also year. These webinars provide managers tools and
expanding scope to include strategic partnerships practical tips to lead themselves and their teams.
within our local communities that emphasize
Building essential skills for managers has been
skills-based hiring. These emerging talent
another area of focus. The New Manager
programs – inclusive of high school and college
Essentials Learning Path of courses provides an
apprenticeships as well as sophomore
opportunity for new managers to attend sessions,
development opportunities – aligned with
participate in self-paced learning opportunities,
nontraditional talent profiles and allowed us to
complete activities on the job, and find resources
hire, retain, and upskill junior-level talent outside
on a variety of topics. We launched additional
of core campus recruitment efforts.
resources such as the new ‘Manager Toolkit’
for the first 90 days in the role to support their
transition as well as a ‘Manager Connections
Newsletter’ to provide ongoing advice.
Nine Brandon Hall Excellence Awards in 2023
Our Learning and Development efforts earned nine Brandon Hall Excellence Awards in 2023, recognizing
achievements in diversity and inclusion training, innovative use of gaming, video instruction, and other training
program content.
33
Table of contents Introduction Sustainability Employee support Governance Appendix
Employee support
“Doing the right thing, being the best manager I can be, adhering to
Company policy (both by the letter and in spirit) are very important
to me. HR Manager Advisory helps me do that.”
Feedback from a Manager
Manager Advisory fills the gap in support for
managers who don’t have a direct contact for
their general Human Resources (HR) advice
needs. Following our 2022 launch, we expanded our
Manager Advisory support to all U.S. managers
with an enhanced level of support to provide skill Career management and mentoring With officer titles aligning to job levels, it is now
development, guidance, and advice to effectively We provide the tools and resources our employees easier for employees to navigate their career
lead their teams. The function provides direct need to achieve their career goals at Wells Fargo. paths across the Company.
access to experienced HR professionals to help We have launched a career framework that
managers effectively and consistently apply provides employees and managers resources to The Wells Fargo Global Mentoring program
Wells Fargo’s procedures, guidelines, and manager help assess skills, understand options, and plan provides employees with the tools and resources
expectations as they build high-performing teams for future career steps. We have learning and they need to grow their careers. Mentees gain
throughout the Company. Support includes development programs in place to support skill access to, and advice from, a trusted, usually more
interpretation and application of HR-related building in strategic areas, such as Technology and senior colleague, while mentors have a chance to
policies and development of strategies for Product and core businesses such as Consumer, fine-tune their coaching skills, become more
coaching, managing employee performance Small, and Business Banking. active listeners, and pay forward lessons learned
and talent, and optimizing team dynamics. that have helped shape their careers.
In 2023, we launched a new global officer title
Feedback from managers also helps Wells Fargo framework grounded in our job architecture —
continually enhance the level of support by the way we consistently describe and organize
building resources and expertise in the areas jobs and give our employees more clarity about
where help is most often requested. their roles, responsibilities and expectations.
34
Table of contents Introduction Sustainability Employee support Governance Appendix
Employee support
“We want our employees to have the tools available to bring their
best selves to work. That’s why we offer comprehensive benefits that
focus on well-being – physical, emotional, and financial. Through this
holistic approach, our programs support a healthy, engaged, and
high-performing workforce.”
Dr. Brent Pawlecki,
Wells Fargo Chief Health Officer
Wells Fargo promotes risk management through leave, critical illness and accident insurance,
compensation which promotes effective risk life insurance, disability coverage, personalized
management and discourages imprudent or referral and discount services, flexible spending
excessive risk-taking. accounts, and legal services plan coverage.
Wells Fargo is also focused on attracting and Eligible employees in the U.S. have an opportunity
Compensating employees competitively
retaining talent to drive superior long-term to participate in our 401(k) Plan and receive a
Competitive and fair compensation is key to Company performance. dollar-for-dollar Company match of up to 6%
attracting and retaining the best talent. We of eligible compensation. In addition, eligible
provide clear and simple guidelines on how Employee benefits employees earning less than $75,000 a year
compensation is determined. Wells Fargo provides eligible employees with receive an automatic 401(k) Plan contribution
a comprehensive set of benefits designed to of 1% of eligible compensation. Eligible U.S.
Wells Fargo pays for performance and support their physical, emotional, and financial employees may also participate in a stock
compensation is linked to Company, business health. purchase plan.
group, and individual performance, including
meeting regulatory expectations and creating We adjusted our U.S. benefits eligibility in 2023
long-term value consistent with the interests so that eligible employees can take advantage of
of shareholders. many of our benefits offered from their first day
of employment at Wells Fargo. These “Day One”
benefits include healthcare coverage, parental
35
Table of contents Introduction Sustainability Employee support Governance Appendix
Employee support
“I was at my heaviest weight in 2022, and one year later I have lost over
100 pounds. I am living the Well Life every day by making healthy eating
choices. Wells Fargo supports this in so many ways, including Well Life
programs, on-campus fitness centers, and the Real Appeal Program.”
Kathy Deaver,
Corporate Security General Associate Manager
Workplace flexibility Wells Fargo contributes up to 85% of the per-
We provide our employees with opportunities and paycheck cost of medical insurance, depending
benefits to support balancing work and life. This on compensation level, for U.S. employees.
includes time away programs and, depending on Employees, spouses, and domestic partners
the employee's role, hybrid-flexible work enrolled in certain U.S. medical plans can earn
Well Life
schedules. health and wellness dollars for completing
Well Life focuses on the employee experience and
specified wellness-related activities. In addition,
the ways that Wells Fargo enables employees to
Physical health employees earning up to $100,000 and enrolled in
live their fullest lives — both inside and outside of
certain medical plans receive automatic funding in
Wells Fargo offers comprehensive and
the Company. It centers on building a connection
a health savings account.
competitive medical benefits. Medical plans in the
between Wells Fargo and employees and potential
U.S. offer preventive care services covered at
employees. In 2023, we debuted Well Life Stories,
100%, prescription drug benefits, and a network
which highlights diverse employees sharing their
of doctors and hospitals to help employees and
unique experiences such as their career journeys
their families maintain their health. In 2024, we
and health triumphs, and launched the Let’s Talk
introduced a health care concierge service at no
About It internal campaign that contributed to an
additional cost to U.S. medical plan members.
increase in use of our Employee Assistance
This service offers expert second medical opinions,
Program (EAP), which provides free counseling
health care navigation, billing and claims support,
sessions.
high-quality provider recommendations and 24/7
clinical advice.
36
Table of contents Introduction Sustainability Employee support Governance Appendix
Employee support
Mental health Family
Through comprehensive support, Wells Fargo Family building benefits in the U.S. include
aims to reduce the stigma sometimes attached to support for fertility treatments, adoption
mental health challenges and promote employee reimbursement, parental leave, and free breast
well-being. In 2023, our comprehensive mental milk shipping for employees who are traveling on
health campaign included manager and employee Company business. In 2023, we also introduced a
resource guides and featured personal stories new surrogacy and fertility donor reimbursement
from both external experts and employees. While program, giving all eligible U.S. employees the
resources available to employees vary across the opportunity to be reimbursed up to a $35,000
globe, in the U.S. and in some other countries, lifetime maximum in eligible surrogacy and donor
these include a mental health mobile app, one-on- expenses. In 2024 we expanded that benefit
one wellness coaching, weekly mindfulness to offer up to a $35,000 combined lifetime
meditation, and virtual yoga classes. maximum for expenses related to surrogacy
and adoption. Additionally, we understand the
In 2023, we enhanced our U.S. Employee importance of flexibility in addressing family
Assistance Program to offer our employees and needs. In the U.S., we provide up to 16 weeks of
their eligible dependents six free in-person or paid time off following the birth or adoption of a
virtual counseling sessions per issue for up to child. In 2024, we made this paid time off available
12 free sessions per calendar year. Employees to eligible U.S. employees on day one of
can also receive customized referrals to licensed employment. Market competitive paid time off
EAP counselors and easy access to available following the birth or adoption of a child is also
appointment times to simplify scheduling. offered internationally. When regular childcare
Similar counseling services that provide arrangements fall though, employees in the U.S.
immediate support for mental health needs and some other countries have access to backup
are available across the globe. in-home and center-based childcare. Backup adult
care is also available. Both options are through
prearranged partnerships with Wells Fargo and
available to employees with a copay for services.
37
Table of contents Introduction Sustainability Employee support Governance Appendix
Employee support
payment adjusted according to the local with resources to help their career transitions,
compensation levels. which include the following:
Employee feedback • Employees that are displaced are provided
We believe in listening to and learning from our a 60-day notice period, as required by the
employees. We leverage employee feedback to Wells Fargo’s Displacement Policy, unless
enhance the employee experience and drive otherwise required by federal, state, or local
improvements to our culture and processes. laws. Individuals are still considered employed
Employees are invited to share their thoughts during the entire notice period.
through surveys, town halls, direct engagement
• During the notice period, they have the
between managers and employees, and leader-led
opportunity to be considered for open roles
sessions.
within the Company by using the internal
Employees submit ideas through our employee hiring or internal movement process.
feedback platform called Loudspeaker, and some
• Employees are eligible for a minimum of eight
of the ideas that have been implemented in recent
weeks of severance and up to 52 weeks, based
years have led to efficiencies, innovation, and
on their completed years of service, during
greater employee engagement.
which they will also have continued access
to health coverage.
We conduct various surveys throughout the year,
Recognition
including our Global Employee Survey and
• Employees who are displaced are offered
The Global Recognition Program focuses on
quarterly pulse surveys. The surveys are a way for
access to career transition services through a
recognizing employees’ performance plus employees to share their candid thoughts and
third-party service provider that offers career
personal and professional achievements. In 2023, feedback. Senior leadership and our directors
coaching, professional resume writing,
approximately 176,000 employees received analyze employee feedback, as shared in the
connections to hiring managers and
awards for outstanding performance and survey results, to help the Company improve
recruiters, and interviewing practices.
milestone anniversaries through our recognition employee experience, workplace engagement,
program. In addition, the program supports peer- and the way we do business. Where we operate outside of the U.S., the
to-peer recognition and appreciation via e-Cards. practices of managing redundancies and
Caring for employees in workforce restructuring vary based on legal
One-time cash payment
times of transition and regulatory requirements and local market
In 2024, in appreciation of employees' efforts
As Wells Fargo continues transforming our practices. International support may include
towards supporting our customers, a one-time
businesses, we recognize that employees may be enhanced severance pay arrangements, employee
cash payment of $1,000 was announced for U.S.
impacted, and we provide communication about assistance programs, and career transition
employees making $75,000 or less in annual
the programs and opportunities they can access services.
salary and less than $85,000 in total cash
for support. U.S. employees who may be displaced
compensation. Eligible employees outside of the
due to organizational restructuring are supported
United States also received a one time cash
38
Table of contents Introduction Sustainability Employee support Governance Appendix
Employee support
anti-competitive behavior, insider activities, range of potential safety concerns, including
Diversity, equity, and inclusion gifts, conflicts of interest, global compliance, ergonomic issues.
Wells Fargo is committed to advancing diversity,
discrimination, information confidentiality and
equity, and inclusion with a belief that a
security, and reporting potential misconduct. New employees are expected to complete safety and
health training, and targeted employee groups have
company’s workforce should reflect the
Anti-harassment and additional training made available. Managers are
customers they serve. More information is
available in our annual Diversity, Equity, and
anti-discrimination policy expected to provide training on job-specific hazards
Inclusion Report, which can be found on our Our Anti-harassment and anti-discrimination at the time of an employee’s initial assignment and
Goals and Reporting website. policy establishes that Wells Fargo does not provide retraining as necessary.
tolerate harassment or discrimination based on
In 2023 we piloted our Workplace Safety
Pay equity any characteristics protected by applicable laws,
Advocates initiative. The advocates are employee
Wells Fargo is committed to fair and equitable including age, race, color, gender, national origin,
volunteers trained on basic ergonomics and hazard
compensation practices. We have conducted an sexual orientation, or disability.
identification. The purpose of the initiatives to help
annual pay equity review through engagement
with a third-party consultant for a number of
This policy applies broadly to all Wells Fargo promote safety and health in the workplace by
years. The pay equity review compares the
employees and covers conduct both inside and establishing communication and cooperation
compensation of women to men globally and U.S.
outside the workplace, including during work- amongst employees. Advocates help reduce the
minorities versus U.S. non-minorities, taking into
related or company-sponsored events, business incidence of work-related injuries and illness by
account factors such as role, level, tenure, and
travel, at customer locations, and remote work. prioritizing safety in the work environment.
geography. We may make adjustments to
It encourages and sets expectation that all
compensation in the event the review identifies
employees should report any concerns related
gaps. The year-end 2023 review showed that
to harassment or discrimination, whether it’s
women at Wells Fargo continue to earn more than
directed at the employee or someone else, even if
99 cents for every $1 earned by their male peers,
all the facts are not immediately available or if it is
and U.S. employees that are racially/ethnically
unclear whether the conduct violates the policy.
diverse earn more than 99 cents for every $1
earned by their Caucasian/white peers.
Prioritizing employee safety and health
Wells Fargo understands the importance of
Code of Conduct
providing a safe and healthy environment.
The Wells Fargo Code of Conduct (Code), which
can be found on our Goals and Reporting website,
The Safety & Health Program was further
applies to all employees, including executive
augmented in 2023 with initial training for
officers. Employees are expected to adhere to the
a new Workplace Safety Advocates initiative.
Code, Global Employee Handbook, and Company
Workplace Safety Advocates received two days
policies and to comply with applicable laws and
of training, learning how to identify a wide
regulations. The Code covers topics including
anti-bribery and corruption,
39
Table of contents Introduction Sustainability Employee support Governance Appendix
Governance
41 Corporate governance and ethics
44 Risk management
47 Customer and product responsibility
48 Cybersecurity and privacy protection
50 Policy advocacy
51 Respecting human rights
52 Disclaimer and forward-looking statements
40
Table of contents Introduction Sustainability Employee support Governance Appendix
Corporate governance
and ethics
Commitment to sound and effective
corporate governance
practices30
Wells Fargo and its Board of Directors are
committed to sound and effective corporate
governance practices.
Our Board has adopted Corporate Governance
Guidelines, which provide the framework for the
governance of our Board and Company, including
the independence of a significant majority of the
directors on the Board, and all members of the
Audit, Governance and Nominating, Human
Resources, Corporate Responsibility, and Risk
Committees. Additionally, the Board adopted
Director Independence Standards. These Director
Independence Standards consist of the New
York Stock Exchange’s “bright line” standards
of independence, as well as additional standards.
At the Board level, the Governance and Nominating
Committee is responsible for overseeing corporate
governance practices, and the Corporate
Responsibility Committee provides primary
oversight for significant strategies, policies, and
programs related to social and public responsibility.
30 Further information related to the Corporate Governance Guidelines, the Governance and Nominating Committee, and the Corporate Responsibility Committee can be found on our Leadership and Governance website.
41
Table of contents Introduction Sustainability Employee support Governance Appendix
Board and board committee oversight of ESG issues
Risk Committee
Oversees our company-wide risk management framework and
independent risk management function.
Board Oversight Corporate Responsibility Committee
of Sustainability, Human Capital Oversees our significant strategies, policies, and programs on social and
Management, DEI, and related public responsibility matters, including environmental sustainability,
climate change, and human rights.
Social Responsibility Matters
Human Resources Committee
Oversees our human capital risk and human capital management,
including DE&I, and also oversees the Company’s culture.
Members of our senior leadership team have specific areas of oversight related to sustainability, social, and DE&I matters:
Head of Public Affairs Head of Diverse Segments, Representation, and Inclusion
Reports to the CEO and is responsible for strategies and initiatives on Reports to the CEO and is responsible for advancing
social and public responsibility matters, including sustainability and DE&I efforts in the marketplace and the workplace.
community impact.
Chief Sustainability Officer Head of Philanthropy and
Leads coordination of sustainability Community Impact
initiatives, including the Climate Leads community engagement and
Implementation Initiative and the enterprise philanthropy, including the
Institute for Sustainable Fiance. Wells Fargo Foundation.
42
Table of contents Introduction Sustainability Employee support Governance Appendix
Executive compensation Our Board believes that our directors bring to our
The Human Resources Committee31 of the Board Board a variety of different backgrounds, skills,
oversees Wells Fargo’s performance management professional and industry experience, and other
and incentive compensation programs and personal qualities, attributes, and perspectives that
approves all compensation for Operating contribute to the overall diversity of our Board.
Committee members. The Human Resources The Board expects to maintain its focus on Board
Committee oversees the performance goals set diversity, as well as on other desired qualifications
for our Operating Committee members, and and experience identified by the Board in future
approves goals for the Chief Executive Officer, director recruitment efforts. More information about
with the aim of aligning goals with the Company’s Board diversity is available in the 2024 Wells Fargo
strategic plan, risk appetite, and risk and control Proxy Statement, which can be found on our
framework. Annual Reports and Proxy Statements website.
More information about the Company and More information about our Corporate
individual Named Executive Officer performance Governance Guidelines can be found
for 2023 and other aspects of our executive on our Leadership and Governance website.
compensation program is available in the 2024
Wells Fargo Proxy Statement, which can be found
on our Annual Reports and Proxy Statements
website.
Board diversity
The Governance and Nominating Committee and
our Board of Directors believe it is essential that
the composition of our Board reflects the diversity
of the communities we serve. As described in the
Corporate Governance Guidelines and the
Governance and Nominating Committee’s charter,
the Governance and Nominating Committee will
consider, in identifying or evaluating first-time
candidates or nominees for director, the current
composition of our Board and the interplay of
candidate’s or nominee’s experience, education,
skills, background, gender, race, ethnicity, and other
qualities and attributes with those of the other
Board members.
31 https://www08.wellsfargomedia.com/assets/pdf/about/corporate/human-resources-committee-charter.pdf
43
Table of contents Introduction Sustainability Employee support Governance Appendix
Risk management
Wells Fargo manages a variety of risks that can Risk and culture. Senior management sets the Risk operating model —
significantly affect our financial performance and tone at the top by supporting a strong culture, roles and responsibilities
ability to meet the expectations of our customers, defined by Wells Fargo’s expectations and Code The Company has three lines of defense for
shareholders, regulators, and other stakeholders. of Conduct, that guides how employees conduct managing risk: the Front Line, Independent Risk
Our Risk Management Framework sets forth the themselves and make decisions. The Board is Management, and Internal Audit. Each line of
the Company’s core principles for managing and responsible for holding senior management defense has distinct risk management
governing its risk. Many other documents and accountable for establishing and maintaining this responsibilities.
policies flow from its core principles. The Risk culture and effectively managing risk. Senior
Management Framework is annually reviewed for management expects employees to speak up • Front Line: The Front Line, which comprises
appropriate updates and approved by the Board’s when they see something that could cause harm principal lines of business and certain enterprise
Risk Committee. to our customers, communities, employees, function activities, is the first line of defense.
shareholders, or reputation. Because risk The Front Line is responsible for understanding
Risk is part of our business model. Risk is the management is everyone’s responsibility, all the risks generated by its activities, applying
possibility of an event occurring that could employees are empowered and expected to adequate controls, and managing risk in the
adversely affect our ability to achieve our challenge risk decisions, when appropriate, and course of its business activities.
strategic and business objectives. The Company escalate their concerns when they have not been
routinely takes risks to achieve our business goals addressed. The Company's performance • Independent Risk Management:
and serve our customers. These risks include management and incentive compensation Independent Risk Management is the second
financial risks, such as interest rate, credit, programs are designed to establish a balanced line of defense. It establishes and maintains
liquidity, and market risks; and nonfinancial risks, framework for risk and reward under core the Company’s risk management program
such as operational (which includes compliance principles that employees are expected to know and provides oversight, including challenge to
and model risks), strategic, and reputation risks. and practice. Effective risk management is a and independent assessment and monitoring
central component of employee performance of, the Front Line’s execution of its risk
Risk is managed by everyone. Every employee, in evaluations. management responsibilities.
the course of their daily activities, creates risk and
is responsible for managing risk. Every employee • Internal Audit: Internal Audit is the third line of
has a role to play in risk management, including defense. It is responsible for acting as an
establishing and maintaining the Company’s risk independent assurance function and validates
and control environment. Every employee must that the risk management program is
comply with applicable laws, regulations, and adequately designed and functioning effectively.
Company policies.
44
Table of contents Introduction Sustainability Employee support Governance Appendix
Risk governance environmental and social impacts associated with
The Board oversees the Company’s business, certain commercial clients and financings.
including its risk management. It assesses senior
management's performance and holds senior Wells Fargo requires additional environmental and
management accountable for maintaining and social impact due diligence for certain industries
adhering to an effective risk management and activities, which are described in the ESIM
program. The Board carries out its risk oversight Framework. Business groups work with the ESIM
responsibilities directly and through its team, who may determine that escalated reviews are
committees. The Risk Committee oversees appropriate. In those cases, the transaction or client
management’s implementation of the Risk would be assessed for elevated risk factors and
Management Framework, including how the potentially subject to review and approval by senior
Company manages and governs risk. business leaders, and, as appropriate, the relevant
governance committee.
Environmental and Social Impact
Management
Framework32 Our approach to managing environmental and social
impacts associated with our client relationships is
As part of our dedication to a strong risk culture,
informed by globally recognized standards and best
Wells Fargo recognizes that environmental and
practices, including:
social issues have the potential to impact various
risk types covered by our Risk Management • Equator Principles
Framework, including reputation risk, credit risk,
and strategic risk.
• United Nations Guiding Principles on
Business and Human Rights
Our Environmental and Social Impact Management
• UK Modern Slavery Act
(ESIM) Framework is designed to provide clarity and
transparency to our stakeholders about how we • International Finance Corporation
approach the environmental and social impacts Performance Standards
associated with certain financial relationships. It is
• Task Force on Climate-Related
intended to reflect enterprise policy and procedure
Financial Disclosures
requirements that establish expectations and
requirements for identifying, assessing, and
managing actual and potential adverse
32 The ESIM Framework can be found on our Goals and Reporting website.
45
Table of contents Introduction Sustainability Employee support Governance Appendix
Bank Secrecy Act and Anti-Money Wells Fargo prohibits the offering, providing,
Laundering program soliciting, receiving, or authorizing of anything of
Wells Fargo’s risk-based global Bank Secrecy Act value to or from any person to improperly
and Anti-Money Laundering (BSA/AML) program influence the performance of the recipient's
is designed to comply with applicable BSA/AML duties, obtain or retain business, or otherwise gain
laws commensurate with our risk profile. The BSA/ an unfair business or personal advantage.
AML program is approved by our Board of Directors
through its Risk Committee. The BSA/AML
Wells Fargo maintains an EthicsLine where
program includes the following core elements:
employees can confidentially report unethical
BSA officer, policies, risk assessments, testing,
or illegal activities or policy violations, including
training, data analytics, customer due diligence,
those related to bribery and corruption.
sanctions screening, transaction monitoring,
Wells Fargo’s program includes evaluating bribery
regulatory reporting, internal controls, and
and corruption risk on (1) gifts, entertainment,
independent audit.
and transfers of value; (2) offers of employment;
Compliance with economic sanctions
(3) third-party engagement; and (4) strategic
transactions. The program also includes regular
laws and regulations
enterprise-wide risk assessments, training, and
Wells Fargo has implemented a comprehensive
management reporting.
risk‐based sanctions compliance program
intended to facilitate compliance with applicable
economic sanctions laws and regulations in every
jurisdiction in which we operate.
Anti-Bribery and Corruption Compliance
Program
Wells Fargo does not tolerate bribery and
corruption in any form and has implemented a
global risk-based Anti-Bribery and Corruption
Compliance Program designed to confirm
adherence to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices
Act and applicable anti-bribery and corruption
laws in the jurisdictions where Wells Fargo does
business.
46
Table of contents Introduction Sustainability Employee support Governance Appendix
Customer and product
responsibility
Fair and transparent products, services, • Providing advice on policies, procedures, For example, within Consumer, Small, and
and business practices and training that impact how Wells Fargo Business Banking we introduced Extra Day Grace,
Doing what is right for customers must be at the interacts with consumers, including older which gives customers an extra business day
center of our actions. We have taken important adults and vulnerable customers. to make deposits and avoid overdraft fees.
steps to embed this mindset into our decisions, It benefited over 5 million customers in 2023,
• Developing and advancing the “Treating
which feeds into all the ways in which we impact helping them avoid over $750 million in overdraft
Consumers Fairly Principles” — a set of five clear
customers. This extends from product design and fees.
standards to help guide customer interactions
pricing to our coverage and service models and
and confirm fairness considerations are central
how we approach complaints and remediations.
Client satisfaction and protection
in decision-making about products and services.
We recognize that our actions speak much louder Wells Fargo’s Enterprise Complaints and
than our words. Remediations organization brings together key
Our Treating Consumers Fairly Principles are
functions from across the Company to effectively
standards to guide interactions with our
Wells Fargo established the Office of Consumer care for customers who have expressed a concern
customers and help promote the inclusion of
Practices in 2021 as a company-wide, consumer- or been adversely affected by the Company.
consumer fairness considerations when making
focused advisory group within the Chief
decisions about our products and services.
Our Complaints team listens to our customers
Operating Office. It is designed to help ensure our
and works to capture, understand, and address
products, services, and business practices are fair
• Do what’s right for consumers and treat
their concerns. Additionally, the insights shared
and transparent and reinforce a customer-centric
them as we would want to be treated, with
by the Complaints team are used to support the
culture.
transparency and respect.
continuous improvement of front-line operations.
The Office of Consumer Practices’ work • Design our consumer products and services so Our Remediations team works to make customers
complements efforts already underway to that all customers are treated fairly. whole, when appropriate, by providing
improve our business practices. Its activities remediation in a high-quality, consistent, and
• Clearly disclose the features, costs, and terms
include: timely manner. Across our organization, our
of our products and services so consumers
teams are committed to doing what’s right for
can make informed choices to meet their
• Assessing and advising on consumer-related our customers and supporting the continued
individual needs.
products, services, and business practices to transformation of our Company.
enable the customer perspective to play a
• Design our marketing and communications to
significant role in decision-making.
be consistent, simple, and easily understood.
• Reviewing complaint metrics and other data
• Listen carefully to consumer feedback and
to help identify and advise on potential
address fairness issues with urgency.
consumer-related issues, trends, and outcomes.
47
Table of contents Introduction Sustainability Employee support Governance Appendix
Cybersecurity and
privacy protection
Information security risk management challenges the Front Line Technology team’s leads our efforts to manage information security
Information security risk, which includes risk assessment activities. and related risks across the enterprise, including
cybersecurity risk, is a significant operational risk overseeing the Company’s Chief Information
for financial institutions such as Wells Fargo and The Company’s Cybersecurity team, which is part Security Officer (CISO).
of the broader technology team, provides front-
includes the risk arising from unauthorized access,
line information security risk assessment and The Company has processes designed to prevent,
use, disclosure, disruption, modification, or
management and is responsible for protecting the detect, mitigate, escalate, and remediate
destruction of information or information systems.
Company’s information systems, networks, and cybersecurity incidents, including monitoring of
The Board’s Risk Committee has primary oversight data, including customer and employee data, the Company’s networks for actual or potential
responsibility for information security risk and through the design, execution, and oversight attacks or breaches. The Company’s incident
approves the Company’s information security of our information security program. response program includes notification,
program, which includes information protection escalation, and remediation protocols for
and cyber resiliency. The Risk Committee receives The Wells Fargo information security program is cybersecurity incidents, including to our Head of
regular reports from the Company’s Head of designed to, where appropriate, follow Technology and CISO. In addition, to help monitor
Technology, as well as from Operational Risk information security standards including: and assess our exposure to ongoing and evolving
Management representatives, on information risks in these areas, the Company has a cyber and
security risks. The Board receives a report from • National Institute of Standards and information security focused risk committee led
the Head of Technology on Wells Fargo’s Technology Cybersecurity Framework by the CISO and a technology risk committee led
information security program and receives • NIST 800-53 Revision 5: Security and Privacy by the Head of Technology.
reports from management on significant Controls for Federal Information Systems
Additional components of the Company’s
information security developments, including and Organizations
information security program include: (i)
certain incidents involving third parties.
• International Organization for enhancing and strengthening of our practices,
At the management level, Operational Risk
Standardization 27001:2013 standard policies, and procedures in response to the
evolving information security landscape; (ii)
Management has oversight responsibility for
• Control Objectives for Information and
designing our information security program to
information security risk. As a second line of
Related Technology
align with regulatory and industry standards;
defense, Operational Risk Management reviews
(iii) investing in emerging technologies to
and provides guidance to the Front Line • Federal Financial Institutions Examination
proactively monitor new vulnerabilities and reduce
Technology team, including with respect to the Council Information Technology Examination
risk; (iv) conducting periodic internal and third-
development and maintenance of risk Handbook
party assessments to test our information security
management policies, governance documents,
The Technology team is led by the Company’s systems and controls; (v) leveraging third-party
processes, and controls, and oversees and
Head of Technology, who reports to the CEO and specialists and advisors to review and strengthen our
48
Table of contents Introduction Sustainability Employee support Governance Appendix
information security program; (vi) evaluating and infrastructure of the internet causing the Our Privacy Compliance function, which is part
updating our incident response planning and widespread unavailability of websites and of Independent Risk Management, promotes a
protocols; and (vii) requiring employees and third- degrading website performance. As a result, strong privacy risk culture through publication and
party service providers who have access to our information security and the continued maintenance of our Privacy Policy, which applies
systems to complete annual information security development and enhancement of our controls, globally to all Wells Fargo business groups and
training modules designed to provide guidance for processes, and systems designed to protect our enterprise functions that access, collect, process,
identifying and avoiding information security risks. networks, computers, software, and data from or store individuals’ personal information.
attack, damage, or unauthorized access remain a Individuals includes current, former, or prospective
In addition, Operational Risk Management priority for Wells Fargo. Wells Fargo is also Wells Fargo customers or consumers, business
oversees the Company’s third-party risk involved in industry cybersecurity efforts and customers (including employees of business
management program, which, among other works with other parties, including our third- customers, representatives, beneficial owners,
things, is designed to identify and address party service providers and governmental agencies, guarantors, officers, and directors), third-party
information security risks arising from third-party to continue to enhance defenses and improve service providers (including sole traders and
service providers. Components of this program resiliency to information security threats. employees of third-party service providers),
include incorporating information security and current or former Wells Fargo employees, job
cybersecurity incident notification requirements Responsible use of artificial intelligence applicants, and contingent resources.
into contracts with third-party service providers, Wells Fargo is focused on the responsible use of
requiring third parties to adhere to defined artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning. Providing a web-based privacy center
information security and control standards, and The responsible use of AI includes reasonable We honor our customers’ privacy preferences
performing periodic third-party risk assessments. safeguards to manage bias risk, model risk regarding the processing of their personal data
management, performance monitoring, and as described in our U.S. privacy policies and
Wells Fargo and other financial institutions, as governance around data and model usage. Our AI notices, which can be found on the Wells Fargo
well as our third-party service providers, continue solutions are developed and governed cross- Privacy Center web portal.
to be the target of various evolving and adaptive functionally to take into account business, risk,
information security threats, including technology, compliance, and legal considerations. The Wells Fargo Privacy Center web portal is a
cyberattacks, malware, ransomware, other resource for individuals to learn information about
malicious software intended to exploit hardware Embracing a privacy culture the types of data we collect, how it is used, choices
or software vulnerabilities, phishing, credential As a global provider of financial services and products available to individuals, and can be found on our
validation, and distributed denial of service, in to consumers, corporate clients, small businesses, Privacy, Cookies, Security, and Legal website.
an effort to disrupt the operations of financial governments, and other institutions, Wells Fargo is
institutions, test their cybersecurity capabilities, committed to the protection and appropriate use
commit fraud, or obtain confidential, proprietary of the personal data we collect and process.
or other information. Cyberattacks have also
focused on targeting online applications and Controls designed to promote and protect
services, such as online banking, as well as cloud- privacy are in place throughout the enterprise.
based and other products and services provided Wells Fargo also mandates company-wide privacy
by third parties, and have targeted the training to manage privacy risk.
49
Table of contents Introduction Sustainability Employee support Governance Appendix
Policy advocacy
We strive to manage our legislative and political • Pursuant to Company policies, we do not use Participation in these groups comes with the
activities in a manner consistent with good corporate Company money or resources to influence any understanding that we may not always agree
governance practices. U.S. or foreign candidate elections. We do not with every position taken. In instances where
use Company money to financially support we identify significant misalignment with trade
• Wells Fargo participates in the U.S. public policy candidate campaign committees, political associations to which we belong, we aim to
arena on a wide range of issues that may impact parties, or caucuses, and we do not make share our perspective in a constructive manner.
the Company. We disclose federal lobbying independent expenditures on other political Additionally, we are not members of any tax-
activities in accordance with the Lobbying committees. exempt organization in the U.S. that is primarily
Disclosure Act, which requires quarterly reports organized to write, endorse, and promote model
to be filed with the United States Congress. Wells Fargo's engagement in public policy legislation.
More information on specific advocacy activities advocacy includes membership in financial
is available in the Climate Report, which can be services industry trade associations. We regularly The Board’s Corporate Responsibility Committee
found on our Goals and Reporting website. review our participation model and believe that oversees our significant government relations
engagement through these trade organizations is strategies, policies, and programs.
• Wells Fargo’s Political Action Committees are an integral part of our public policy strategy and
funded through voluntary contributions from best serves our customers, Company, employees, More information on our Political Action
eligible exempt employees and managed by and communities. Committees and corporate political spending can
the Government Relations and Public Policy be found on our Government Relations and Public
team. Our Political Action Committees report Policy, and our Wells Fargo Political Action
to the Federal Elections Committee and/or to Committees contributions (PDF), websites.
state agencies as required by law.
Public policy lobbying and Political Action Committee spending
Unit 2023
Spending on federal lobbying activities33 USD 4,310,000
PAC contributions34 USD 777,800
33 Federal lobbying activities are disclosed under the Lobbying Disclosure Act, which requires reports to be filed quarterly with the United States Congress. Lobbying Disclosure Act reports are available for review on the U.S. House website https://lda.senate.gov/system/public/.
34 Contributions to federal and state committees from the employee-funded Political Action Committee.
50
Table of contents Introduction Sustainability Employee support Governance Appendix
35
Respecting human rights
As described in our Human Rights Statement, We strive to engage with suppliers whose values
Wells Fargo is committed to respecting human and business principles reflect respect for the
rights throughout our operations, products, and human rights of the people and the communities
services. Our efforts are guided by the Universal they do business with. While we recognize that
Declaration of Human Rights and the United each supplier has varying policies and approaches
Nations Guiding Principles on Business and to human rights, we expect our suppliers to
Human Rights, which identify a responsibility adhere to the standards and values expressed in
for corporations to respect human rights in our Supplier Code of Conduct, which can be found
their operations and through their business on our Goals and Reporting website.
relationships.
We promote the understanding of and compliance
Wells Fargo recognizes its responsibility to respect with our human rights related policies and
the rights of Indigenous Peoples, which include the procedures by developing and deploying training
right to determine their own way of life on their own courses for employees on enterprise policy
lands, according to their time‑honored cultures, requirements. We have also incorporated a
traditions, and beliefs. We take that responsibility voluntary human rights training section on our
into account in conducting our business activities. employee Learning and Development platform.
We have existing policies and procedures to evaluate
potential risks to Indigenous communities, and we Wells Fargo also engages with external parties,
periodically review and evaluate those policies and including those focused on human rights, to share
procedures, consistent with our standard policy and learn best practices. These organizations can
management process and our enterprise risk and provide additional learning opportunities for
control programs. Wells Fargo employees, and in 2023 we co-hosted
a session on the United Nations Guiding Principles
on Business and Human Rights.
35 Further information related to our Human Rights Assessment, Human Rights Statement, and the Indigenous Peoples Statement can be found on our Goals and Reporting website. Our UK Modern Slavery Act Statement can be found on our EMEA Disclosures and Disclaimers website.
51
Table of contents Introduction Sustainability Employee support Governance Appendix
Disclaimer and forward-
looking statements
This document is provided for information expectations. Forward-looking statements speak ended December 31, 2023, and in our subsequent
purposes only. The information provided in this only as of the date made, and we do not quarterly reports, as filed with the Securities and
document reflects Wells Fargo & Company's (the undertake to update them to reflect changes or Exchange Commission and available on its website
“Company”) approach to the topics herein as of events that occur after that date. Factors that at www.sec.gov.36
August 20, 2024. The approach is subject to could cause actual results to differ materially from
change in the Company’s sole discretion without those forward-looking statements described in While this document describes events, including
notice. The Company does not undertake to this document include the precautionary potential future events, that may be of interest or
update this document, or any information statements and disclaimers included in this report significance to our stakeholders in the context of
contained in this document, to reflect changes or as well as the following factors: the challenges our ESG priorities and related activities, any
events that occur after that date. Any goals, associated with data availability and quality; the references to terms such as “significant,”
targets, commitments, objectives, or other evolving standards and methodologies for “important,” or “material” or similar terms should
information discussed in this document are not measuring, reporting and verifying ESG-related not be read as necessarily rising to the level of
guarantees of future results, occurrences, metrics; the necessity of technological materiality of disclosures required under U.S.
performance, or conditions. advancements; the evolution of consumer federal securities laws or other laws and
behavior; the need for thoughtful climate and regulations.
This document contains forward-looking sustainability policies; the need for collaboration
statements about our business, including and action on the part of various stakeholders to The Company is not providing any financial,
discussion of the Company’s plans, objectives and help achieve climate and sustainability goals; the economic, legal, accounting, tax, or investment
strategies, and expectations for our operations potential impact of legal and regulatory advice or recommendations. This document
and business related to our environmental, social, obligations; and changes in management’s should not be used as a basis for trading in the
and governance (ESG) activities such as our goals, strategy for balancing our aspirational short-term securities of the Company or for any other
targets, commitments, and objectives relating to targets, goals and commitments with other investment decision.
greenhouse gas emissions reductions, operational interests such as the prioritization of energy
sustainability, and renewable energy and security and achievement of an orderly and This document reflects certain positions and
sustainability financing and investment, among equitable energy transition, among other factors. approaches to ESG as of the date of this
others. Because forward-looking statements are For additional information about factors that document that are subject to change at any time
based on our current expectations and could cause actual results to differ materially from in the Company’s sole discretion without notice,
assumptions regarding the future, they are our expectations, refer to our reports filed with and we do not undertake to update this document
subject to inherent risks and uncertainties. Do not the Securities and Exchange Commission, to reflect any such changes. Any references to
unduly rely on forward-looking statements as including the discussion under “Risk Factors” in “sustainable investing,” “sustainable financing,”
actual results could differ materially from our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year “renewable energy,” “clean energy,” “ESG,” or
36 We do not control this website. Wells Fargo has provided this link for your convenience but does not endorse and is not responsible for the content, links, privacy policy, or security policy of this website.
52
Table of contents Introduction Sustainability Employee support Governance Appendix
similar terms in this document are intended as compounding effects on the accuracy and or omissions from, such data and other
references to the internally defined criteria of the completeness of resulting emissions and resource information. GHG Protocol requires restatement
Company, as applicable, and, except as specifically consumption figures. The suitability of the design when changes in calculation methodology or
stated, not to any jurisdiction-specific regulatory and effectiveness of any third-party systems and improvements in the accuracy of emissions
definition that may exist. Such terms can be associated controls over the accuracy and factors or activity data significantly impact the
subjective in nature, and there is no completeness of the data has not been base year emissions data. As data availability and
representation or guarantee that these terms, as independently assessed by us. Also, while the quality continue to improve, and as the standards,
used herein, or judgment exercised by Wells Fargo Company set client portfolio emissions targets for methodologies, and approaches used in preparing
in the application of these terms, will reflect the certain sectors to enable it to track the alignment this document continue to evolve, information we
beliefs or values, policies, principles, frameworks, of its financing activities to its net-zero goal, are currently disclosing may need to be changed
or preferred practices of any particular investor or these targets, even if met, do not guarantee or restated in the future. Other than as expressly
other third party, or reflect market practices or reductions of absolute greenhouse gas emissions stated herein, the Company does not undertake
trends. Wells Fargo's ESG, sustainability, climate, in the real economy. The reduction of absolute any duty to restate or correct data should such
sustainable investing, or sustainable finance goals, greenhouse gas emissions in the real economy will information later prove to be incorrect.
targets, commitments, and initiatives are ultimately depend on the efforts and actions of
aspirational and purely voluntary, are not binding various stakeholders outside of our control. This document provides general information
on the Company's business, investment decisions, Relatedly, given the indirect nature of financial regarding a number of the Company’s policies,
and/or management, may be amended or institution emissions target setting and the procedures, and positions relating to ESG issues.
cancelled at any time, and do not constitute a challenges of drawing causality between bank The description of such policies, procedures, and
guarantee or promise of achievement of any such financing and real economy emission outcomes, positions herein does not purport to be complete
goals, targets, or commitments or regarding these targets reflect our efforts to help align the and such policies, procedures, and positions may
actual or potential positive impacts or outcomes. Company's financed emissions to its net-zero be subject to approved exceptions. Further, there
goal, and should not be construed as a can be no assurance that the Company’s policies,
Information contained herein is sourced from a commitment by the Company to achieve a procedures, and positions relating to ESG issues
variety of internal and external sources and may particular emissions outcome or a claim to realize will continue; such policies, procedures, and
be based on emerging or evolving practices. a specific climate effect. positions, including the initiatives, goals, and
Similarly, statistics and metrics relating to targets related thereto, could change, even
climate- and other ESG-related matters are With respect to data and other information that is materially. The Company may determine in its
estimates and may be based on assumptions and not also included in the Company’s Statement of sole discretion that it is not feasible or practical to
developing standards. In addition, disclosures Greenhouse Gas Emissions or Management's implement, comply with, or achieve certain of its
related to environmental sustainability, including Assertion with respect to sustainable financing policies, procedures, positions, goals, or targets
disclosures related to the Company’s resource activities, the Company makes no representations relating to ESG issues based on cost, timing, or
consumption and greenhouse gas emissions, as or warranties as to the quality, completeness, other considerations. Except where indicated, this
well as certain internal estimates and accuracy, or fitness for a particular purpose and document and the data contained herein have not
assumptions, are based in part on third-party shall not be liable for any use by any party of, for been verified or otherwise assured by an
data. Uncertainties, inaccuracies, or omissions in any decision made or action taken by any party in independent third party.
any of these inputs may potentially have reliance upon, or for any inaccuracies or errors in,
53
Table of contents Introduction Sustainability Employee support Governance Appendix
The United Nations Sustainable Development regarding the non-infringement of any
Goals (SDGs) are also aspirational in nature. The information contained herein.
analysis involved in determining whether and how
certain initiatives may contribute to the SDGs is
inherently subjective and dependent on a number
of factors. There can be no assurance that
reasonable parties will agree on a decision as to
whether certain projects, initiatives, investments,
or other aspects of our business contribute to a
particular SDG. Accordingly, investors or other
stakeholders should not place undue reliance on
our application of the SDGs, as such application is
subject to change at any time and in our sole
discretion.
The Company has provided external links within
this document for your convenience, but the
Company does not endorse and is not responsible
for the content, links, privacy policy, or security
policy of these websites. The content of any third-
party websites is not in any way included in or
incorporated by reference into this document.
This document is not intended to make
representations as to the ESG initiatives of any
third parties, whether named herein or otherwise,
which may involve information and events that
are beyond Wells Fargo's control.
All third-party trademarks or brand names are the
property of their respective owners. The use of
any third-party trademarks or brand names is for
informational purposes only and does not imply
an endorsement by the Company or that such
trademark owner has authorized Wells Fargo to
promote its products or services. The Company
disclaims any representations or warranties
54
Table of contents Introduction Sustainability Employee support Governance Appendix
Appendix
56 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals
57 Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) index
62 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) content index
69 Sustainable Finance Eligibility Criteria
75 Management’s assertion
76 Independent Accountants’ Review Report
55
Table of contents Introduction Sustainability Employee support Governance Appendix
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals
7 AFFORDABLE
1 NO 3 GOOD 4 QUALITY 5 GNDER
AND CLEAN
POVERTY HEALTH AND EDUCATION EQUALITY
ENERGY
WELL-BEING
8 DECENT WORK 9 INDUSTRY, 10 REDUCED 11 13 CLIMATE
AND ECONOMIC INNOVATION AND
INEQUALITIES SUSTAINABLE ACTION
GROWTH INFRASTRUCTURE
CITIES AND
COMMUNITIES
Wells Fargo recognizes that we have a responsibility to do our part to help address the many global challenges facing the communities
we serve. We continue to evolve our business for the future. The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals are a universal
framework for accomplishing 17 desired global outcomes by 2030. We have identified the above 10 goals as most germane to
our efforts and were informed by them as we defined our Sustainability Impact Areas of Climate Action and Community Impact,
as referenced in the Introduction of this report.
56
Table of contents Introduction Sustainability Employee support Governance Appendix
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) index
The information cited in the index below relates to Wells Fargo company-wide as of or for the year ended December 31, 2023, unless
otherwise noted.
SASB Disclosure topic SASB Accounting metric Wells Fargo Response/Disclosure location
Business Ethics
FN-CB-510a.1 Total amount of monetary losses as a result of Wells Fargo does not disclose total monetary losses as a result of
FN-IB-510a.1 legal proceedings associated with fraud, insider legal proceedings associated with financial industry laws or
trading, antitrust, anti-competitive behavior, regulations. However, Wells Fargo provides information regarding
market manipulation, malpractice, or other related material legal matters in accordance with SEC requirements and U.S.
financial industry laws or regulations GAAP in its Annual Report and applicable SEC filings.
Wells Fargo 2023 Annual Report (PDF), Note 13: Legal Actions
FN-CB-510a.2 Description of whistleblower policies and Wells Fargo Code of Conduct, Speaking up, Nonretaliation
FN-IB-510a.2 procedures commitment, which can be found on our Goals and Reporting
website.
Systemic Risk Management
FN-CB-550a.1 Global Systemically Important Bank score, by 2023 List of Global Systemically Important Banks (G-SIBs) (https://
FN-IB-550a.1 category www.fsb.org/wp-content/uploads/P271123.pdf)
Wells Fargo has provided external links within this document for your
convenience, but Wells Fargo does not endorse and is not
responsible for the content, links, privacy policy, or security policy of
these websites.
FN-CB-550a.2 Description of approach to integrate mandatory Company-Run Stress Test Reports
FN-IB-550a.2 and voluntary stress tests into capital adequacy
planning, long-term corporate strategy, and other
business activities
57
Table of contents Introduction Sustainability Employee support Governance Appendix
SASB Disclosure topic SASB Accounting metric Wells Fargo Response/ Disclosure location
Professional Integrity
FN-IB-510b.2 Number of mediation and arbitration cases Wells Fargo does not disclose this information. However, Wells Fargo
associated with professional integrity, including provides information regarding material legal matters in accordance
duty of care, by party with SEC requirements and U.S. GAAP in its Annual Report and
applicable SEC filings.
Wells Fargo 2023 Annual Report (PDF), Note 13: Legal Actions
FN-IB-510b.3 Total amount of monetary losses as a result of Wells Fargo does not disclose total monetary losses as a result of
legal proceedings associated with professional legal proceedings associated with professional integrity, including
integrity, including duty of care duty of care. Wells Fargo provides information regarding material
legal matters in its Annual Report and applicable SEC filings.
Wells Fargo 2023 Annual Report (PDF), Note 13: Legal Actions
FN-IB-510b.4 Description of approach to ensuring professional Wells Fargo Code of Conduct, Accountability; Upholding our ethical
integrity, including duty of care and legal obligations, which can be found on our Goals and Reporting
website.
Wells Fargo 2024 Proxy Statement (PDF), Sustainability, Human
capital Management, and DE&I
Customer Privacy
FN-CF-220a.2 Total amount of monetary losses as a result of Wells Fargo does not disclose total monetary losses as a result of
legal proceedings associated with customer legal proceedings associated with customer privacy. However,
privacy Wells Fargo provides information regarding material legal matters
in its Annual Report and applicable SEC filings.
Wells Fargo 2023 Annual Report (PDF), Note 13: Legal Actions
58
Table of contents Introduction Sustainability Employee support Governance Appendix
SASB Disclosure topic SASB Accounting metric Wells Fargo Response/ Disclosure location
Data Security
FN-CB-230a.2 Description of approach to identifying and Wells Fargo Sustainability & Governance Report, Governance,
FN-CF-230a.3 addressing data security risks Cybersecurity, and privacy protection
Wells Fargo 2023 Annual Report (PDF), Risk Management; Risk
Factors
Discriminatory Lending
FN-MF-270b.2 Total amount of monetary losses as a result of Wells Fargo does not disclose total monetary losses as a result of
legal proceedings associated with discriminatory legal proceedings associated with discriminatory mortgage lending.
mortgage lending However, Wells Fargo provides information regarding material legal
matters in accordance with SEC requirements and U.S. GAAP in its
Annual Report and applicable SEC filings.
Wells Fargo 2023 Annual Report (PDF), Note 13: Legal Actions
FN-MF-270b.3 Description of policies and procedures for ensuring Wells Fargo responsible lending - What It Means at Wells Fargo
nondiscriminatory mortgage origination
Employee Diversity and Inclusion
FN-IB-330a.1 Percentage of (1) gender and (2) diversity group Wells Fargo Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Report, which can be
representation for (a) executive management, (b) found on our Goals and Reporting website.
non-executive management, (c) professionals, and
(d) all other employees Wells Fargo EEO-1 Tables, which can be found on our Goals and
Reporting website.
Employee Incentives and Risk Taking
FN-IB-550b.3 Discussion of policies around supervision, control, Wells Fargo 2023 Annual Report (PDF), Note 15: Fair Values of
and validation of traders’ pricing of Level 3 assets Assets and Liabilities
and liabilities
Financial Inclusion and Capacity Building
FN-CB-240a.1 (1) Number and (2) amount of loans outstanding Wells Fargo does not separately disclose number and amount of
qualified to programs designed to promote small loans outstanding qualified to programs designed to promote small
business and community development business and community development. However, Wells Fargo
provides information regarding total loan amounts for Consumer
and Small Business Banking in its Annual Report.
Wells Fargo 2023 Annual Report (PDF), Earnings Performance
59
Table of contents Introduction Sustainability Employee support Governance Appendix
SASB Disclosure topic SASB Accounting metric Wells Fargo Response/ Disclosure location
Financed Emissions
FN-CB-410b.2 Gross exposure for each industry by asset class Wells Fargo 2023 Climate Report, Metrics and Targets
FN-CB-410b.3 Percentage of gross exposure included in the Wells Fargo 2023 Climate Report, Metrics and Targets
financed emissions calculation
FN-CB-410b.4 Description of the methodology used to calculate Wells Fargo 2023 Climate Report, Metrics and Targets
financed emissions
Lending Practices
FN-MF-270a.3 Total amount of monetary losses as a result of Wells Fargo does not disclose total monetary losses as a result of
legal proceedings associated with communications legal proceedings associated with communications to customers or
to customers or remuneration of mortgage loan remuneration of loan originators. However, Wells Fargo provides
originators information regarding material legal matters in accordance with SEC
requirements and U.S. GAAP in its Annual Report and applicable SEC
filings.
Wells Fargo 2023 Annual Report (PDF), Note 13: Legal Actions
60
Table of contents Introduction Sustainability Employee support Governance Appendix
SASB Disclosure topic SASB Accounting metric Wells Fargo Response/ Disclosure location
Selling Practices
FN-CF-270a.4 (1) Number of complaints filed with the Consumer Wells Fargo does not publicly disclose this information. However, this
Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB information is disclosed publicly on the Consumer Financial
(2) percentage with monetary or non-monetary Protection Bureau website (https://www.consumerfinance.gov/).
relief
(3) percentage disputed by consumer Wells Fargo has provided external links within this document for your
(4) percentage that resulted in investigation by the convenience, but Wells Fargo does not endorse and is not
CFPB responsible for the content, links, privacy policy, or security policy of
these websites.
FN-CF-270a.5 Total amount of monetary losses as a result of Wells Fargo does not disclose total monetary losses as a result of
legal proceedings associated with selling and legal proceedings associated with selling and servicing of products.
servicing of products However, Wells Fargo provides information regarding material legal
matters in accordance with SEC requirements and U.S. GAAP in its
Annual Report and applicable SEC filings.
Wells Fargo 2023 Annual Report (PDF), Note 13: Legal Actions
Disclosure topic Activity metric Response/ Disclosure location
Activity Metrics
FN-MF-000.A (1) Number and (2) value of mortgages originated Wells Fargo 2023 Annual Report (PDF), Table 9a: Consumer Banking
by category: (a) residential and (b) commercial and Lending - Income Statement and Selected Metrics,
Wells Fargo does not disclose this information for Commercial
Banking.
FN-MF-000.B (1) Number and (2) value of mortgages purchased Wells Fargo 2023 Annual Report (PDF), Managed Servicing Portfolio
by category: (a) residential and (b) commercial
FN-IB-000.A (1) Number and (2) value of (a) underwriting, (b) Wells Fargo 2023 Annual Report (PDF), WIM Advisory Assets; Note
advisory, and (c) securitization transactions 16: Securitization and Variable Interest Entities
FN-IB-000.C (1) Number and (2) value of market making Wells Fargo 2023 Annual Report (PDF), Corporate and Investment
transactions in (a) fixed income, (b) equity, (c) Banking - Income Statement and Selected Metrics
currency, (d) derivatives, and (e) commodity
products
FN-CB-000.B (1) Number and (2) value of loans by segment: (a) Wells Fargo 2023 Annual Report (PDF), Consumer Banking and
personal, (b) small business, and (c) corporate Lending - Balance Sheet; Commercial Banking - Balance Sheet;
Corporate and Investment Banking - Balance Sheet; Wealth and
Investment Management
61
Table of contents Introduction Sustainability Employee support Governance Appendix
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) content index
The information cited in the index below relates to Wells Fargo company-wide as of or for the year ended December 31, 2023, unless
otherwise noted.
GRI Disclosure Number GRI Disclosure Name Wells Fargo Disclosure Location
GRI 2: General disclosures
The organization and its reporting practices
2-1 Organizational details Wells Fargo 2023 Annual Report (PDF), General information
Wells Fargo Global Locations
2-2 Entities included in the organization’s Wells Fargo 2023 Annual Report (PDF), Note 1: Summary of
sustainability reporting Significant Accounting Policies
2-3 Reporting period, frequency and contact point Wells Fargo Sustainability & Governance Report, Introduction, About
Wells Fargo
corporateresponsibility@wellsfargo.com
2-5 External assurance Statement of Greenhouse Gas Emissions, which can be found on our
Goals and Reporting website.
Activities and workers
2-6 Activities, value chain, and other business Wells Fargo Sustainability & Governance Report, Introduction, About
relationships Wells Fargo
Wells Fargo 2023 Annual Report (PDF), Note 20: Operating
Segments
2-7 Employees Wells Fargo Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Report, which can be
found on our Goals and Reporting website.
Wells Fargo EEO-1 Tables, which can be found on our Goals and
Reporting website.
Governance
2-9 Governance structure and composition Wells Fargo Sustainability & Governance Report, Governance,
Corporate governance and ethics
Wells Fargo 2024 Proxy Statement (PDF), Director Nominee
Highlights; Our Director Nominee’s Qualifications; Board Diversity;
Board Committee Composition and Oversight Responsibilities
2-10 Nomination and selection of the highest Wells Fargo 2024 Proxy Statement (PDF), Board and Governance
governance body Matters; Annual Independent Chair Selection
62
Table of contents Introduction Sustainability Employee support Governance Appendix
GRI Disclosure Number GRI Disclosure Name Wells Fargo Disclosure Location
2-11 Chair of the highest governance body Wells Fargo 2024 Proxy Statement (PDF), Our Director Nominees
2-12 Role of the highest governance body in Wells Fargo Sustainability & Governance Report, Governance,
overseeing the management of impacts Corporate governance and ethics
Wells Fargo 2023 Climate Report, Governance
Wells Fargo 2024 Proxy Statement (PDF), Oversight of
Sustainability, Social, and DE&I
2-13 Delegation of responsibility for managing impacts Wells Fargo 2023 Climate Report, Governance
Wells Fargo 2024 Proxy Statement (PDF), Sustainability, Human
Capital, and DE&I; Risk is Managed by Everyone
2-14 Role of the highest governance body in Wells Fargo Sustainability & Governance Report, Governance,
sustainability reporting Corporate governance and ethics
Wells Fargo 2024 Proxy Statement (PDF), Oversight of
Sustainability, Social, and DE&I
2-15 Conflicts of interest Wells Fargo 2024 Proxy Statement (PDF), Board and Governance
Matters; Director Independence; Information About Related Persons
Wells Fargo & Company Related Person Transaction Policy and
Procedures (PDF)
2-16 Communication of critical concerns How to Contact the Board of Directors
Wells Fargo 2024 Proxy Statement (PDF), Shareholder Engagement;
Communicating with Our Board
2-17 Collective knowledge of the highest governance Wells Fargo 2024 Proxy Statement (PDF), Director Orientation,
body Training, and Education
2-18 Evaluation of the performance of the highest Wells Fargo 2024 Proxy Statement (PDF), Board Evaluation process
governance body
2-19 Remuneration policies Wells Fargo Sustainability & Governance Report, Governance,
Corporate governance and ethics
2-20 Process to determine remuneration Wells Fargo 2024 Proxy Statement (PDF), Compensation Design;
Compensation Discussion and Analysis
2-21 Annual total compensation ratio Wells Fargo 2024 Proxy Statement (PDF), CEO Pay Ratio and
Median Employee Annual Total Compensation
Strategy, policies and practices
2-22 Statement on sustainable development strategy Wells Fargo Sustainability & Governance Report, Introduction, Our
approach
63
Table of contents Introduction Sustainability Employee support Governance Appendix
GRI Disclosure Number GRI Disclosure Name Wells Fargo Disclosure Location
2-23 Policy commitments Wells Fargo Sustainability & Governance Report, Governance,
Corporate governance and ethics
Wells Fargo Code of Conduct, which can be found on our Goals and
Reporting website.
2-24 Embedding policy commitments Wells Fargo Sustainability & Governance Report, Governance,
Corporate governance and ethics
Wells Fargo Code of Conduct, Our Code, which can be found on our
Goals and Reporting website.
2-25 Processes to remediate negative impacts Wells Fargo Sustainability & Governance Report, Governance,
Corporate governance and ethics
2-26 Mechanisms for seeking advice and raising Wells Fargo Code of Conduct, Speaking Up, which can be found on
concerns our Goals and Reporting website.
2-27 Compliance with laws and regulations Wells Fargo provides information regarding material legal matters in
its Annual Report and applicable SEC filings.
Wells Fargo 2023 Annual Report (PDF), Note 13: Legal Actions
2-28 Membership associations Membership Associations, which can be found on our Goals and
Reporting website.
Stakeholder engagement
2-29 Approach to stakeholder engagement Wells Fargo 2024 Proxy Statement (PDF), Shareholder Engagement
GRI 3: Material Topics
3-1 Process to determine material topics Wells Fargo Sustainability & Governance Report, Introduction, Our
approach
3-2 List of material topics Wells Fargo Sustainability & Governance Report, Introduction, Our
approach
3-3 Management of material topics Wells Fargo Sustainability & Governance Report, Introduction, Our
approach; Governance, Corporate governance and ethics
GRI 201: Economic Performance
201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Wells Fargo 2023 Annual Report (PDF), Our Performance, Income
Statement
201-2 Financial implications and other risks and Wells Fargo 2023 Annual Report (PDF), Risk Management; Risk
opportunities due to climate change Factors
201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other Wells Fargo 2023 Annual Report (PDF), Employee Benefits
retirement plans
64
Table of contents Introduction Sustainability Employee support Governance Appendix
GRI Disclosure Number GRI Disclosure Name Wells Fargo Disclosure Location
GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts
203-1 Infrastructure investments and services Wells Fargo Sustainability & Governance Report, Sustainability,
supported Community impact
GRI 205: Anti-corruption
205-2 Communication and training about anti- Wells Fargo Code of Conduct, Our Code, Anti-Bribery and Anti-
corruption policies and procedures Corruption, which can be found on our Goals and Reporting website.
GRI 302: Energy
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Wells Fargo Sustainability & Governance Report, Sustainability,
Operations and supply chain
Wells Fargo 2023 Climate Report, Metrics and Targets
302-2 Energy consumption outside the organization Wells Fargo Sustainability & Governance Report, Sustainability,
Operations and supply chain
Wells Fargo 2023 Climate Report, Metrics and Targets
302-3 Energy intensity Wells Fargo Sustainability & Governance Report, Sustainability,
Operations and Supply Chain
Wells Fargo 2023 Climate Report, Metrics and Targets
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Wells Fargo Sustainability & Governance Report, Sustainability,
Operations and supply chain
Wells Fargo 2023 Climate Report, Metrics and Targets
GRI 303: Water and Effluents
303-5 Water consumption Wells Fargo Sustainability & Governance Report, Sustainability,
Operations and supply chain
Wells Fargo 2023 Climate Report, Strategy
GRI 305: Emissions
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Wells Fargo Sustainability & Governance Report, Sustainability,
Operations and supply chain
Wells Fargo 2023 Climate Report, Strategy
Statement of Greenhouse Gas Emissions, which can be found on our
Goals and Reporting website.
65
Table of contents Introduction Sustainability Employee support Governance Appendix
GRI Disclosure Number GRI Disclosure Name Wells Fargo Disclosure Location
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Wells Fargo Sustainability & Governance Report, Sustainability,
Operations and supply chain
Wells Fargo 2023 Climate Report, Strategy
Statement of Greenhouse Gas Emissions, which can be found on our
Goals and Reporting website.
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Wells Fargo Sustainability & Governance Report, Sustainability,
Operations and supply chain
Wells Fargo 2023 Climate Report, Strategy
Statement of Greenhouse Gas Emissions, which can be found on our
Goals and Reporting website.
305-4 GHG emissions intensity Wells Fargo Sustainability & Governance Report, Sustainability,
Operations and supply chain
Wells Fargo 2023 Climate Report, Strategy
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Wells Fargo Sustainability & Governance Report, Sustainability,
Operations and supply chain
Wells Fargo 2023 Climate Report, Strategy
GRI 306: Waste
306-1 Waste generation and significant waste-related Wells Fargo Sustainability & Governance Report, Sustainability,
impacts Operations and supply chain
306-2 Management of significant waste-related impacts Wells Fargo Sustainability & Governance Report, Sustainability,
Operations and supply chain
306-3 Waste generated Wells Fargo Sustainability & Governance Report, Sustainability,
Operations and supply chain
306-4 Waste diverted from disposal Wells Fargo Sustainability & Governance Report, Sustainability,
Operations and supply chain
306-5 Waste directed to disposal Wells Fargo Sustainability & Governance Report, Sustainability,
Operations and supply chain
GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment
308-1 New suppliers that were screened using Wells Fargo Sustainability & Governance Report, Sustainability,
environmental criteria Operations and supply chain
66
Table of contents Introduction Sustainability Employee support Governance Appendix
GRI Disclosure Number GRI Disclosure Name Wells Fargo Disclosure Location
GRI 401: Employment
401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Wells Fargo Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Report, which can be
found on our Goals and Reporting website.
401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are Wells Fargo Sustainability & Governance Report, Employee support,
not provided to temporary or part-time Employee benefits
employees
Wells Fargo 2023 Annual Report (PDF), Employee Benefits
GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety
403-1 Occupational health and safety management Wells Fargo Sustainability & Governance Report, Employee support,
system Prioritizing employee safety and health
GRI 404: Training and Education
404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and Wells Fargo Sustainability & Governance Report, Employee support,
transition assistance programs Learning and development
404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular Wells Fargo Sustainability & Governance Report, Employee support,
performance and career development reviews Learning and development
GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Wells Fargo Sustainability & Governance Report, Governance,
Corporate governance and ethics
Wells Fargo 2024 Proxy Statement (PDF), Board Diversity
405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women Wells Fargo Sustainability & Governance Report, Employee support,
to men Diversity, equity, and inclusion
GRI 408: Child Labor
408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for Wells Fargo UK Modern Slavery Act Statement (FY 2023),
incidents of child labor Wells Fargo Governance, Policies, and Training Related to Modern
Slavery Issue; Wells Fargo’s Human Rights Due Diligence and Risk
Assessment Approach, five of which can be found on our EMEA
Disclosures and Disclaimers website.
Wells Fargo Human Rights Statement, Safe and Respectful
Workplaces, which can be found on our Goals and Reporting website.
GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor
409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for Wells Fargo UK Modern Slavery Act Statement (FY 2023),
incidents of forced or compulsory labor Wells Fargo Governance, Policies, and Training Related to Modern
Slavery Issue; Wells Fargo’s Human Rights Due Diligence and Risk
Assessment Approach, five of which can be found on our EMEA
Disclosures and Disclaimers website.
Wells Fargo Human Rights Statement, Safe and Respectful
Workplaces, which can be found on our Goals and Reporting website.
67
Table of contents Introduction Sustainability Employee support Governance Appendix
GRI Disclosure Number GRI Disclosure Name Wells Fargo Disclosure Location
GRI 413: Local Communities
413-1 Operations with local community engagement, Wells Fargo Sustainability & Governance Report, Sustainability,
impact assessments, and development programs Community impact
GRI 415: Public Policy
415-1 Political contributions Wells Fargo Sustainability & Governance Report, Governance, Policy
advocacy
Additional topic-specific disclosures
GRI Disclosure Number GRI Disclosure Name Wells Fargo Disclosure Location
GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling
417-1 Requirements for product and service Wells Fargo Sustainability & Governance Report, Governance,
information and labeling Customer and product responsibility
417-2 Incidents of noncompliance concerning product Wells Fargo does not disclose incidents of noncompliance with
and service information and labeling regulations and/or voluntary codes concerning product and service
information and labeling. However, Wells Fargo provides information
regarding material legal matters in accordance with SEC
requirements and U.S. GAAP in its Annual Report and applicable SEC
filings.
Wells Fargo 2023 Annual Report (PDF), Note 13: Legal Actions
417-3 Incidents of noncompliance concerning marketing Wells Fargo does not disclose incidents of noncompliance with
communications regulations and/or voluntary codes concerning marketing
communications. However, Wells Fargo provides information
regarding material legal matters in accordance with SEC
requirements and U.S. GAAP in its Annual Report and applicable SEC
filings.
Wells Fargo 2023 Annual Report (PDF), Note 13: Legal Actions
68
Table of contents Introduction Sustainability Employee support Governance Appendix
(1)
Sustainable Finance Eligibility Criteria
Category Eligible Activities
Standard-Aligned Sustainable Finance
Financial products either directly dedicated to or linked to environmental and/or social outcomes that aim to align with sustainable finance
standards or principles.
Standard-Aligned Transactions • Products that align with sustainable finance standards or principles based on
Bloomberg’s and/or Dealogic’s designation, where available. Otherwise, the
structure of the transaction is reviewed internally for alignment with
sustainable finance standards or principles. When Wells Fargo underwrites or
lends under the transaction or facilitates the use/issuance of these products,
and it meets one of these two criteria, we will include them in our sustainable
finance reporting.
Environmental Finance(2),(3)
Financial products and services that support clients or client activities that promote environmental sustainability.
Clean Transportation • Low- or zero-emission vehicles
• Infrastructure dedicated to electrified transport
• Financing of manufacturers that exclusively support clean transportation
Green Buildings • Energy-efficiency upgrades for new or existing commercial and multifamily
buildings meeting any of the following certifications: LEED® (Platinum, Gold,
and Silver), BREEAM (Outstanding, Excellent, and Very Good), GreenPoint
(Platinum, Gold, and Silver), National Green Building Standard (NGBS)
(Emerald, Gold, Silver), Green Globes (three or higher), or other equivalent
levels in state or regional certification schemes.(4)
Energy Efficiency • Manufacturers and/or businesses dedicated to the development or
deployment of clean technology that serves to reduce or avoid greenhouse
gas emissions, including district heating, energy storage (mechanical,
chemical, etc.), fuel cell manufacturing, smart/microgrid infrastructure, and
new construction or improvements to transmission, distribution.
Energy Generation • Solar
• Onshore and offshore wind power
• Geothermal
• Small hydropower (<20 MW)
• Biofuels
• Tidal
Sustainable Water and Wastewater Management • Repairs and improvements to existing water infrastructure, including
pipelines and associated pumping infrastructure; water treatment facilities,
including water recycling and wastewater treatment facilities; and
development and deployment of desalination technology.
69
Table of contents Introduction Sustainability Employee support Governance Appendix
Category Eligible Activities
Pollution Prevention and Control and Circular Economy • Reduction of air pollution emissions
• Greenhouse gas control
• Treatment of contaminated soil
• Waste prevention
• Waste reduction
• Waste recycling and energy/emission-efficient waste-to-energy
• Recycling and composting facilities
• Technologies and infrastructure supporting pollution prevention and circular
economy
• Development and introduction of environmentally sustainable products
Sustainable Agriculture • Production agriculture with third-party certifications (USDA organic)
• Equipment finance that supports qualifying production agriculture clients
• Forestry, timber production with third-party certification (Forest
Stewardship Council)
• Bio-refineries
• Fisheries and fishing with certification for sustainable management (Marine
Stewardship Council)
70
Table of contents Introduction Sustainability Employee support Governance Appendix
Category Eligible Activities
Transition Finance • Financial products and services provided to projects, firms, or sovereigns that
contribute to a specified sustainable transition strategy for the production
and/or consumption of energy, industrial processes, or other activities that
have historically negatively impacted the environment, in line with achieving
net zero by 2050 to align with 1.5°C pathways.
Social Finance(5),(6)
Financial products and services that serve underserved, excluded, or marginalized people or communities.
Education • Accredited historically Black colleges and universities, and tribal colleges and
universities
• Projects that promote access to education in low- to moderate-income
communities(7) or majority-minority census tract areas,(8), including
apprenticeship training programs, community and junior colleges, public
schools, colleges, and universities.
Healthcare • Nonprofit or public sector emergency healthcare facilities that provide free-
of-cost or subsidized service to underserved populations
• Voluntary health organizations as defined by the North American Industry
Classification System (NAICS).(9)
Housing Affordability • Projects financed via the Low-Income Housing Tax Credit program
• Financing of nonprofit organizations dedicated to addressing housing
affordability
• Financing of state and/or local housing finance agencies
• Financing for activities that conform to government or government-
sponsored enterprise definitions and frameworks for affordable housing
Socioeconomic Advancement & Empowerment • Projects financed via the New Markets Tax Credit program
• Supranational and development agency activities
• Loans to small- or medium-sized enterprises (annual revenues <$50 million)
operating in low- to moderate-income or majority-minority census tract
areas or that are minority- or women-owned
• Financing activity to and investments in Minority Depository Institutions as
defined by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
(1) Includes only revenue-generating business activities; philanthropic giving is therefore out of scope. Our Sustainable Finance Eligibility Criteria were updated for calendar year 2022 related to Green Buildings (inclusion of additional green building certification schemes),
Housing Affordability (inclusion of financing that meets government or government-sponsored enterprise definitions of affordable housing), and Standard-aligned Sustainable Finance (inclusion of transactions not captured by Dealogic or Bloomberg and reviewed internally).
See details herein. We aim to (as we have done here) obtain a review of our progress toward our $500 billion goal from an independent accounting firm on an annual basis.
(2) Transactions that are not aligned to a sustainable finance standard but for which the use of proceeds and/or the counterparty can be determined by mapping the use of proceeds to meet an activity to support environmental activities as defined by Environmental finance categories.
(3) Transactions that fall within both eligible Environmental and Social financing activities herein are counted only as Environmental finance, with the exception of qualifying Housing Affordability projects, which are counted as Social.
(4) Equivalent levels in other certification schemes are reviewed by subject matter experts (SMEs) as part of an internal eligibility review process.
(5) Transactions that are not aligned to a sustainable finance standard but for which the use of proceeds and/or the counterparty can be determined by mapping the use of proceeds to meet an activity to support social activities as defined by Social finance categories.
(6) Transactions that fall within both Environmental and Social financing types are counted only as Environmental finance, with the exception of qualifying Housing Affordability projects, which are counted as Social.
(7) “Under the Community Reinvestment Act (CRA), the term low- and moderate-income refers to communities that in certain geographies have income levels that fall between certain ranges, as determined by the Census Bureau. A low-income community means there is a median family
income of less than 50% of the area median income. A moderate-income community means that the median family income is at least 50% and less than 80% of the area median income.” Source: Federal Reserve (https://www.federalreserve.gov/consumerscommunities/cra_resources.htm)
Note: Wells Fargo does not control this website. Wells Fargo has provided this link for your convenience, but does not endorse and is not responsible for the content, links, privacy policy, or security policy of this website.
(8) Wells Fargo and the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) consider a “minority census tract” to be a census tract that has greater than or equal to 50% nonwhite population.
(9) The North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) is the standard used by federal statistical agencies in classifying business establishments for the purpose of collecting, analyzing, and publishing statistical data related to the U.S. business economy.
71
Table of contents Introduction Sustainability Employee support Governance Appendix
Sustainable Finance Tracking and Reporting Overview
Product Measurement Criteria Reporting Scope(1)
Standard Aligned Transactions(2)
Green, Social, Bond issuances based on Bloomberg’s or Dealogic’s designation for League table credit methodology based on
Sustainability, green, social, sustainability, sustainability-linked, or transition finance. Bloomberg’s or Dealogic’s criteria is utilized,
Sustainability-Linked, defined as splitting capital market origination
and Transition Bonds credit equally among named bookrunners.
Sustainability-Linked Loans based on Bloomberg’s or Dealogic’s designation, where League table credit methodology based on
Loans available, as sustainability-linked loans including any loan instrument Bloomberg’s or Dealogic’s criteria is utilized where
for which the financial or structural characteristics are linked to available, defined as splitting origination credit
predefined sustainability performance targets. Otherwise, the equally among named bookrunners. Otherwise,
structure of the transaction is reviewed internally for alignment with committed amount (limit at execution) of credit
Loan Market Association (LMA)/Asian Pacific Loan Market facilities is counted.
Association (APLMA)/Loan Syndications and Trading Association
(LSTA) Sustainability-Linked Loan Principles.
Green Loans & Social Loans based on Dealogic’s or Bloomberg’s designation as a green League table credit methodology, defined as
Loans loan or social loan including any type of loan instrument made splitting origination credit equally among named
available exclusively to finance or refinance, in whole or in part, new bookrunners, is utilized where available. Otherwise,
or existing eligible green or social project. committed amount (limit at execution) of credit
facilities is counted.
Bond Investments Bond investments based on Dealogic’s or Bloomberg’s designation Commitment amount is counted.
as green, social, sustainability, sustainability-linked, or transition
finance.
Environmental and Social Finance: Transactions that are not aligned to a sustainable finance standard but for which the use of proceeds or the
counterparty can be determined (through reasonable commercial means) to support environmental or social finance activities as defined by the
Wells Fargo Sustainable Eligibility Finance Criteria.
Equity Capital Markets Sustainability-linked convertible bonds, green convertible bonds, and League table credit methodology based on
any equity issuance from renewable energy companies, based on Dealogic’s criteria is utilized, defined as splitting
Dealogic’s designation are counted(3). capital market origination credit equally among
named bookrunners.
Mergers and Advisory mandates where the target’s operating revenue aligns with Based on Dealogic’s criteria for M&A advisory
Acquisitions Advisory the Wells Fargo Sustainable Finance Eligibility Criteria, as designated services ranking credit.
by Dealogic.
Other Environmental, Corporate, project, municipal, or supranational bonds, asset-backed League table credit methodology is utilized,
Social and Transition finance, commercial mortgage-backed securities, and loan defined as splitting capital market origination
Qualified Debt Capital syndications issued/originated by a company or to finance a project credit equally among named bookrunners.
Markets activity where the use of proceeds or the Company’s NAICS(4) code aligns
with the Wells Fargo Sustainable Finance Taxonomy eligible
activities; however, the bond is not designated by Dealogic or
Bloomberg as a green bond, social bond, sustainability bond,
transition bond, or sustainability-linked bond(5).
72
Table of contents Introduction Sustainability Employee support Governance Appendix
Product Measurement Criteria Reporting Scope(1)
Other Environmental, Loans for which the facility use of proceeds or the Company’s Committed amount (limit at execution) of facilities
Social and Transition NAICS(4) code aligns with the Wells Fargo Sustainable Finance is counted.
Qualified Lending(5) Taxonomy eligible activities; however, the facility does not explicitly
align and is not designated by Dealogic or Bloomberg as a green loan
or social loan or sustainability-linked loan(3).
Other Investments(5) Other investments(3), including: Committed amount of investment is counted.
• Renewable energy tax credit investments These investments are where the use of proceeds
• Housing tax credit investments is for eligible activities defined herein.
• New market tax credit investments
• Equity investments
.
(1) Throughout Reporting Scope, commitment as defined by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (U.S. GAAP).
(2) Eligible transactions are those meeting the description for the product and reported as such by Bloomberg or Dealogic where available. Otherwise, the structure of the transaction is reviewed internally for alignment with Loan Market Association (LMA)/Asian Pacific Loan Market
Association (APLMA)/Loan Syndications and Trading Association (LSTA) Sustainability-Linked Loan Principles.
(3) Eligible transactions not designated by Dealogic or where the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code does not explicitly align with an eligible code in Eligible NAICS Code Table 2023 are reviewed as part of an internal eligibility review process by subject matter
experts to identify and review transactions that fall within our eligibility criteria but are not captured by our rules-based approach.
(4) The North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) is the standard used by federal statistical agencies in classifying business establishments for the purpose of collecting, analyzing, and publishing statistical data related to the U.S. business economy.
(5) Eligible transactions are determined based on the NAICS code associated with the lending. See mapping of eligible NAICS codes in Eligible NAICS Code Table 2023.
Eligible qualifying refinancing activity
Refinanced facilities that qualify are counted when:
• Any qualifying facility is refinanced and upsized with no change in the use of proceeds, or when a commitment is counted at transaction close
but increases due to accordion or prescribed upsize over the tenor of the transaction; in either case, only the incremental amount will be counted.
• Any qualifying facility is refinanced to support new qualifying projects that meet the criteria herein; in which case full renewal amount is counted.
• A sustainability-linked loan is renewed; in which case full renewal amount is counted.
• A facility that was not previously qualified is refinanced as a standard-aligned or use of proceeds facility with appropriate amendments to the terms and
conditions; in which case the full renewal amount is counted.
• A facility that was previously qualified changes its structure or product type to a new qualifying facility (e.g., green loan to sustainability-linked loan)
with appropriate amendments to the terms and conditions; in which case the full renewal amount is counted.
Extensions to existing facilities that do not meet any one of the conditions stated above will not be counted.
73
Table of contents Introduction Sustainability Employee support Governance Appendix
Eligible NAICS Code Table
Sustainable Finance Category NAICS Code(1) Description
Education 611210 Junior Colleges
Energy Generation 221111 Hydroelectric Power Generation
Energy Generation 221114 Solar Electric Power Generation
Energy Generation 221115 Wind Electric Power Generation
Energy Generation 221116 Geothermal Electric Power Generation
Healthcare 813212 Voluntary Health Organizations
Pollution Prevention & Control and Circular Economy 562920 Materials Recovery Facilities
Socioeconomic Advancement & Empowerment 624110 Child and Youth Services
Socioeconomic Advancement & Empowerment 624120 Services for the Elderly and Persons with Disabilities
Socioeconomic Advancement & Empowerment 624210 Community Food Services
Socioeconomic Advancement & Empowerment 624221 Temporary Shelters
Socioeconomic Advancement & Empowerment 624229 Other Community Housing Services
Socioeconomic Advancement & Empowerment 624230 Emergency and Other Relief Services
Socioeconomic Advancement & Empowerment 624310 Vocational Rehabilitation Services
Socioeconomic Advancement & Empowerment 712190 Nature Parks and Other Similar Institutions
Socioeconomic Advancement & Empowerment 813211 Grantmaking Foundations
Socioeconomic Advancement & Empowerment 813219 Other Grantmaking and Giving Services
Socioeconomic Advancement & Empowerment 813311 Human Rights Organizations
Socioeconomic Advancement & Empowerment 921150 American Indian and Alaska Native Tribal Governments
Sustainable Agriculture 112910 Apiculture
Sustainable Water and Wastewater Management 221320 Sewage Treatment Facilities
(1) NAICS Code 335911 (Storage Battery Manufacturing) was removed from the NAICS Code System as part of the 2022 NAICS Code update.
74
Table of contents Introduction Sustainability Employee support Governance Appendix
Management’s assertion
Wells Fargo & Company asserts that approximately $178 billion in sustainable finance activities have been originated, committed, advised, or
facilitated by Wells Fargo during the calendar years 2021, 2022, and 2023 that meet the Sustainable Finance Eligibility Criteria included in this
report on pages 69 through 74. Wells Fargo is responsible for the completeness, accuracy, and validity of this management assertion.
75
Table of contents Introduction Sustainability Employee support Governance Appendix
KPMG LLP
345 Park Avenue
New York, NY 10154-0102
Independent Accountants’ Review Report
To the Board of Directors and Management of Wells Fargo & Company and Wells Fargo Bank N.A.:
Report on Wells Fargo & Company’s assertion of sustainable finance activities covering the calendar years 2021, 2022, and 2023
Conclusion
We have reviewed management of Wells Fargo & Company’s (the Company’s) assertion on page 75 of the Wells Fargo Sustainability &
Governance Report covering the calendar years 2021, 2022, and 2023, which includes the Sustainable Finance Eligibility Criteria (the Criteria)
used by management of the Company as a basis for the assertion (“Management’s Assertion”).
Based on our review, we are not aware of any material modifications that should be made to Management’s Assertion in order for it to be
fairly stated.
Our conclusion on Management’s Assertion does not extend to any other information that accompanies or contains Management’s Assertion
and our assurance report.
Basis for Conclusion
Our review was conducted in accordance with attestation standards established by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants in
the versions of AT-C section 105, Concepts Common to All Attestation Engagements, and AT-C section 210, Review Engagements that are
applicable as of the date of our review. We are required to be independent and to meet our other ethical requirements in accordance with
relevant ethical requirements related to the engagement. We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to
provide a reasonable basis for our conclusion.
Responsibilities for Management’s Assertion
Management of the Company is responsible for Management’s Assertion as well as:
• designing, implementing and maintaining internal control relevant to the preparation of Management’s Assertion such that it is free from
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error;
• selecting or developing suitable criteria as a basis for Management’s Assertion and appropriately referring to or describing the criteria used;
and
• fairly stating Management’s Assertion.
KPMG LLP, a Delaware limited liability partnership and a member firm of
The KPMG global organization of independent member firms affiliated with
KPMG International Limited, a private English company limited by guarantee.
76
Table of contents Introduction Sustainability Employee support Governance Appendix
Our Responsibilities
The attestation standards established by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants require us to:
• plan and perform the review to obtain limited assurance about whether any material modifications should be made to Management’s
Assertion in order for it to be fairly stated; and
• express a conclusion on Management’s Assertion based on our review.
Summary of the Work We Performed as the Basis for Our Conclusion
We exercised professional judgment and maintained professional skepticism throughout the engagement. We designed and performed our
procedures to obtain evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion. Our procedures selected depended on our
understanding of Management’s Assertion and other engagement circumstances, and our consideration of areas where material misstatements
are likely to arise. In carrying out our engagement, we performed procedures that consisted primarily of:
• inquiring of management to obtain an understanding of the Company’s sustainable finance activities;
• inquiring of management to understand the processes and systems used to aggregate data and prepare the sustainable finance activities
information;
• inspecting documentation related to a selection of recorded sustainable finance activities to evaluate whether they met the Criteria; and
• evaluating Management’s Assertion for consistency with our understanding of the Criteria and other review procedures performed.
The procedures performed in a review vary in nature and timing from, and are substantially less in extent than, an examination, the objective
of which is to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the assertion is fairly stated, in all material respects, in order to express an opinion.
Because of the limited nature of the engagement, the level of assurance obtained in a review is substantially lower than the assurance that
would have been obtained had an examination been performed.
New York, New York
July 19, 2024
77
