2020
Environmental, Social
and Governance
REPORT
This document contains “forward-looking statements” as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. When Welltower uses words
such as “may,” “will,” “intend,” “should,” “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “project,” “pro forma,” “estimate” or similar expressions that do not relate
solely to historical matters, Welltower is making forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements, including statements related to Funds
From Operations guidance, are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties that may cause Welltower’s actual results to
differ materially from Welltower’s expectations discussed in the forward-looking statements. This may be a result of various factors, including, but not
limited to: the successful completion of the transactions; the duration and scope of the COVID-19 pandemic; the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic
on occupancy rates and on the operations of Welltower and its operators/tenants; actions governments take in response to the COVID-19 pandemic,
including the introduction of public health measures and other regulations affecting Welltower’s properties and the operations of Welltower and its
operators/tenants; uncertainty regarding the implementation and impact of the CARES Act and future stimulus or other COVID-19 relief legislation; the
effects of health and safety measures adopted by Welltower and its operators/tenants related to the COVID-19 pandemic; increased operational costs as
a result of health and safety measures related to COVID-19; the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the business and financial condition of operators/
tenants and their ability to make payments to Welltower; disruptions to Welltower's property acquisition and disposition activity due to economic
uncertainty caused by COVID-19; general economic uncertainty in key markets as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and a worsening of global economic
conditions or low levels of economic growth; the status of capital markets, including availability and cost of capital; issues facing the health care industry,
including compliance with, and changes to, regulations and payment policies, responding to government investigations and punitive settlements and
operators’/tenants’ difficulty in cost effectively obtaining and maintaining adequate liability and other insurance; changes in financing terms; competition
within the health care and seniors housing industries; negative developments in the operating results or financial condition of operators/tenants,
including, but not limited to, their ability to pay rent and repay loans; Welltower’s ability to transition or sell properties with profitable results; the failure
to make new investments or acquisitions as and when anticipated; natural disasters and other acts of God affecting Welltower’s properties; Welltower’s
ability to re-lease space at similar rates as vacancies occur; Welltower’s ability to timely reinvest sale proceeds at similar rates to assets sold; operator/
tenant or joint venture partner bankruptcies or insolvencies; the cooperation of joint venture partners; government regulations affecting Medicare and
Medicaid reimbursement rates and operational requirements; liability or contract claims by or against operators/tenants; unanticipated difficulties and/or
expenditures relating to future investments or acquisitions; environmental laws affecting Welltower’s properties; changes in rules or practices governing
Welltower’s financial reporting; the movement of U.S. and foreign currency exchange rates; Welltower’s ability to maintain Welltower’s qualification as a
REIT; key management personnel recruitment and retention; and other risks described in Welltower’s reports filed from time to time with the SEC. Finally,
Welltower undertakes no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether because of new information, future events or
otherwise, or to update the reasons why actual results could differ from those projected in any forward-looking statements.
CEO LETTER COVID-19 ABOUT COMMITMENT IMPACT STAKEHOLDERS SOCIAL GOVERNANCE DISCLOSURES i
Table of Contents
1 Letter from the CEO 20 Stakeholder Engagement
23 Industry Association Memberships
2 COVID-19 Leadership Efforts
24 Social
3 About Welltower
25 Corporate Citizenship
5 2020 ESG Leadership
26 The Welltower Charitable Foundation
26 Welltower’s Human Capital
6 A Deep Commitment
27 Employees: Recruitment, Retention, and Development
8 Climate Change and Risk Management
28 Workforce Diversity and Equal Opportunity
8 Strategy
29 Employee Network Groups
8 GRI Alignment
31 Total Compensation
8 SASB Alignment
31 Supporting our Military
9 Materiality
31 Employee Demographics
10 Sustainability Management System
32 Health, Safety, and Wellness
11 Environmental Impact 33 WELL+Being Program
12 Our Goals
34 Governance
13 Energy and GHG Emissions
35 ESG Governance
15 Water Efficiency
35 Risk Management
15 Waste Management
35 Cybersecurity
16 2020 Environmental Performance Metrics
37 Anti-Corruption
17 Sustainable Purchasing and Supply Chain
37 Employee Ethics
18 Building Certifications
18 New Development 38 Disclosures
CEO LETTER COVID-19 ABOUT COMMITMENT IMPACT STAKEHOLDERS SOCIAL GOVERNANCE DISCLOSURES ii
Letter from the CEO
102-12 | 102-14 | 102-20
While the challenges of 2020 were beyond the scope of any stress
test imaginable, glimpses of cautious optimism across the globe were
visible as the year closed. With great conviction, we maintained our
focus on the health and wellness of the aging population and our
commitment to developing a more sustainable health care delivery
infrastructure continues.
Despite the enormous disruption caused by COVID-19 around the
globe, we remained steadfast in our prioritization of being an exemplar
corporate citizen. Our investors value it, our employees are driven by
it and it is core to our value proposition. The reflection of our success
continues to be recognized by the most prestigious environmental,
social and governance (ESG) ratings agencies as we once again were
admitted to the Dow Jones Sustainability World and North American
Indices, the Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index, and the S&P Global
Sustainability Yearbook. And, the recognition does not stop there. In
2020, we prioritized increasing our sustainability dataset by working
in partnership with medical office teams and senior housing operators
to better drive energy efficiency across our portfolio and help track
In sharing Welltower’s 2020 Environmental, Social and Governance
progress towards our sustainability goals for a 10% reduction in
Report I want to thank the Welltower team members around the
greenhouse gas emissions, energy and water use by 2025. As a result
world whose talent and commitment to our mission drove the
of these efforts, we were honored for the second time as an ENERGY
impact we made this past year despite the challenges posed by a
STAR® Partner and a Green Lease Leader Gold Recognition for the
global pandemic. I look forward to a period of long-term growth
execution of our continued commitment to high performing and
in the better days ahead while maintaining our commitment to the
sustainable buildings.
highest ESG standards.
While we are proud of these accomplishments, our work here
is ongoing, and our goals are ambitious. As I’ve said in the past,
the diversity of our employee base, our leadership team and our
Board continues to be a priority at Welltower. This is not only a key
Shankh Mitra
component of good governance, but it is a proven driver of higher
CEO and CIO, Welltower Inc.
returns to shareholders.
CEO LETTER COVID-19 ABOUT COMMITMENT IMPACT STAKEHOLDERS SOCIAL GOVERNANCE DISCLOSURES 1
COVID-19 Leadership Efforts
As a health care REIT, the impact of COVID-19 on the health and well- Medical Office Building (MOB) Essential Employees
being of our senior living residents, employees, medical office tenants
• Regularly conducted outreach to our MOB tenants to monitor and
and visitors and the broader population has been a primary focus for
respond to needs including implementing protocols that support
Welltower. Since 2018, Welltower has engaged with the University of
social distancing
California, San Francisco Health System to advise our operating partners
on the most current evidence-based patient and caregiver flu protocols. • Provided COVID training, enhanced PPE, and employee
In 2020, this collaboration expanded to focus on the COVID-19 response healthcare monitoring
and served as a key pillar of support to our employees and operators • Implemented alternative work schedules and procedures to
as the world navigated through this unprecedented viral outbreak. Our
increase social distancing
response to the pandemic prioritized the health of our stakeholders and
• Deferred non-essential activities, adjusted facility critical and
emphasized infection control through the following measures:
maintenance work to non-business hours and enhanced monitoring of
mechanical plant and equipment remotely, limiting exposure between
Seniors Housing Operators
individuals while maintaining support of both patient care and
• Distributed over 1.7 million units of personal protective equipment
building operations
(PPE) to over 25 seniors housing and post-acute operators and
three health systems MOB Properties
• Hosted informational sessions for our operators to hear experts provide
• Increased custodial scopes to proper cleaning procedures built from
best practice guidance on topics including COVID testing, inter-facility
EPA and CDC guidance on approved products and methods
transfers, use of PPE, therapeutics, and the vaccine pipeline
• Enhanced facility performance following detailed guidance issued by
• Distributed our “ENERGY STAR® Senior Living – Energy Matters for
ASHE and ASHRAE on increased ventilation, filtration, cleaning, air
Resident Health” resource to our seniors housing operators so they
distribution and HVAC operations
would be better informed on how maintenance decisions affect the
• Temporarily suspended amenities with high contact frequency or
health and comfort of residents
replaced them with alternatives
Corporate Employees • Placed signage to provide guidance and enhance social distancing
• Shifted to a flexible working schedule that included work from home
arrangements and a $300 equipment stipend for corporate employees
• Distributed employee engagement surveys to review and establish best
practices for our workforce and establish a return to office strategy
• Shifted to a hybrid model for a return to the office, as the result of
employee surveys, where employees both work from home and in
the office
CEO LETTER COVID-19 ABOUT COMMITMENT IMPACT STAKEHOLDERS SOCIAL GOVERNANCE DISCLOSURES 2
ABOUT
Welltower
CEO LETTER COVID-19 ABOUT COMMITMENT IMPACT STAKEHOLDERS SOCIAL GOVERNANCE DISCLOSURES 3
About Welltower
World’s largest health and
102-1 | 102-2 | 102-3 | 102-4 | 102-5 | 102-6 | 102-7 | 201-1 | 203-2
wellness real estate platform
Welltower is a Real Estate Investment Trust (REIT) that provides
$41B $4.6B $1.6B
real estate capital to leading seniors housing operators, post-acute
care providers, and health systems. Headquartered in Toledo, Ohio, ENTERPRISE IN 2020 IN STRATEGIC
Welltower has become known for its unparalleled relationship network VALUE REVENUE INVESTMENTS
and premier-quality health care real estate portfolio. Owning the finest
assets and working with the best health care providers is simple in 1,300+ 368
concept but demanding in execution. Over more than 40 years of
SENIORS HOUSING OUTPATIENT
investing exclusively in health care real estate, Welltower has built unique COMMUNITIES MEDICAL FACILITIES
capabilities and the industry’s best team.
84% 9% 7%
By delivering a built environment focused on maintaining and enhancing
the social determinants of health for aging and other at-risk populations, LOCATED IN LOCATED IN LOCATED IN
THE U.S. CANADA THE U.K.
Welltower is successfully delivering on a long-term plan that achieves
industry leading financial performance and builds shareholder value while
21% 500 BBB+/Baa1
positively impacting some of today’s most pressing societal challenges
as we witness exponential growth in the 80+ year old population. FIVE YEAR S&P STRONG
TOTAL RETURN BALANCE SHEET
199
CONSECUTIVE QUARTERLY DIVIDEND PAYMENTS TO
SHAREHOLDERS SINCE INCEPTION
20.2M+ 232K+
OUTPATIENT SENIORS HOUSING
MEDICAL VISITS RESIDENTS
$223.5M 108K+
PROPERTY TAXES HEALTH CARE
PAID IN 2020 PROFESSIONALS
CEO LETTER COVID-19 ABOUT COMMITMENT IMPACT STAKEHOLDERS SOCIAL GOVERNANCE DISCLOSURES 4
2020 ESG LEADERSHIP
SUSTAINABILITY WORLD INDEX
Since 2018 PARTNER OF THE YEAR
Since 2019
NORTH AMERICAN INDEX
Since 2016
GREEN LEASE LEADER GOLD LEVEL
GENDER EQUALITY INDEX
2020
Since 2019
by the Institute for Market Transformation
and the U.S. Department of Energy’s Better
Buildings Alliance, after several prior years of
repeated recognition
2020 EDITION OF THE
SUSTAINABILITY YEARBOOK
Since 2018
TOP 20 PERCENT OF
AMERICA’S MOST RESPONSIBLE
PART OF THE FTSE4Good INDEX
COMPANIES LIST
Since 2012
Since 2019
a series of investment stock indices that
measure the performance of companies
demonstrating strong ESG practices
21ST ANNUAL 100 BEST
MAINTAINED PRIME STATUS CORPORATE CITIZENS LIST
UNDER THE ISS-ESG Since 2019
CORPORATE RATING
Since 2019
MANAGEMENT BAND LEVEL WORKPLACE HEALTH
“B” SCORE ACHIEVEMENT INDEX
for taking coordinated action Since 2018
on climate issues
CEO LETTER COVID-19 ABOUT COMMITMENT IMPACT STAKEHOLDERS SOCIAL GOVERNANCE DISCLOSURES 5
A DEEP
Commitment
CEO LETTER COVID-19 ABOUT COMMITMENT IMPACT STAKEHOLDERS SOCIAL GOVERNANCE DISCLOSURES 6
A Deep Commitment
Providing the infrastructure to promote health
102-16 and wellbeing for all ages, including the growing
80+ demographic served by our valued operating
partners across our senior living communities.
Our journey and success to date are based on a deep commitment
that embedding environmental, social and governance strategies and
best practices into our business are critical to retaining the standard Empowering women in the workplace
of excellence of our portfolio and driving value for all Welltower through creative programs that build
stakeholders. In 2020, Welltower expanded our ESG goals to extend networks, provide mentorship, and offer
to executive leadership team performance and increased ESG team career building training opportunities.
staffing through the addition of a full time ESG Analyst to support
the AVP of Sustainability and ESG. Our increased ESG staffing has
Providing equitable job opportunities across the
contributed to the improved sustainability data coverage across our
country throughout Welltower operations as
portfolio and the development of a Sustainability Management System
well as the many vendors, suppliers, and health
and ESG dashboard to continuously track and monitor our progress.
care professionals that work in our buildings.
We are proud to align with the leading industry standards, such
as the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), Developing modern and resilient properties
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), Sustainable Accounting Standards that are sustainable for the environment and
Board (SASB), and the Task Force on Climate-related Financial incorporate strategies for improved occupant
Disclosures (TCFD), that help guide and ensure our continued growth, health and wellness.
accountability, and transparency.
The UN SDGs provide an important universal call for action with their Reducing the amount of waste sent to
17 Goals to Transform Our World. Our ESG commitment and work landfills through recycling programs and
aligns seamlessly with six of these goals, while helping us to deliver responsible purchasing.
excellence, improve lives, and protect the environment.
Increasing efficiency, reducing consumption,
and using green power.
CEO LETTER COVID-19 ABOUT COMMITMENT IMPACT STAKEHOLDERS SOCIAL GOVERNANCE DISCLOSURES 7
CLIMATE CHANGE AND RISK MANAGEMENT 102-15 | 201-2 Transitional Risk
Transitional risks for Welltower include increasing energy and carbon
Welltower is committed to identifying,
policy and legislation across the U.S., Canada, and the U.K. as well as
mitigating, and managing the risks of
reputational risk and evolving customer and investor preference for
climate change. This requires strategic
doing business with companies that are more sustainable. Welltower
oversight, evaluation, action, and transparency. As such, Welltower is
mitigates policy risk by reviewing annually the policy and legislative
aligned with the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures
requirements for the portfolio and ensuring compliance. We also work
(TCFD) to help guide our climate risk strategy to identify, manage, and
to proactively reduce energy usage and GHG emissions in our buildings
disclose climate risks and opportunities. The TCFD Index can be found
while increasing building value for our stakeholders.
on page 39.
Governance and Risk Management Process Metrics and Targets
To ensure Welltower’s Board of Directors and Company management The key metric and target related to Welltower’s climate related risks
play a role in assessing and managing climate-related risks and
includes the tracking of Scope 1, Scope 2, and Scope 3 greenhouse
opportunities, Welltower has an established Enterprise Risk Management
gas emissions for the entire portfolio, estimating usage data where it is
(ERM) program that includes a committee made up of cross-functional
not feasible to collect. Welltower has a goal to reduce greenhouse gas
management personnel. This team reaches out consistently to each
emissions, energy, and water usage 10% by 2025 over a 2018 baseline.
functional team, including ESG, about their most relevant risks and
conducts meetings with them to discuss the magnitude of the risk and
GRI ALIGNMENT
related mitigation strategies. Once a strategy is prepared, it is presented
to the Board of Directors for its ultimate oversight. The Assistant
This ESG Report has been prepared in accordance with
Vice President of Sustainability and ESG is actively involved in the
the GRI Standards: Core option. Welltower’s dedication
risk identification process, participation in the ERM program, and the
to furthering our ESG program includes alignment in this
presentation of climate risk information to the Board of Directors.
globally recognized reporting framework utilized by the
world’s largest companies. The GRI Index can be found
STRATEGY
on pages 43-51.
Physical Risk
Key physical risks related to climate change that have been identified to SASB ALIGNMENT
date include extreme variability in weather patterns, increased severity
Welltower also ensures this ESG report is in alignment
of weather events, and the impacts of rising sea levels. All these risks
with the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board
carry the potential impact of property damage/loss. An inherent strategy
for mitigating climate risk is the diversified footprint of the Welltower (SASB) to ensure financial responsibility on issues
portfolio. As such, there is limited exposure to coastal and other high- material to our Company and our mission. The SASB
risk areas, indicating a low level of climate change risk for the portfolio. Index can be found on pages 40-42.
In addition to having a diversified portfolio that helps mitigate climate-
related risks, our portfolio-level assessment helps inform our long-term
strategy and we have begun conducting climate risk assessment at the
individual asset level.
CEO LETTER COVID-19 ABOUT COMMITMENT IMPACT STAKEHOLDERS SOCIAL GOVERNANCE DISCLOSURES 8
MATERIALITY
102-12 | 102-21 | 102-42 | 102-43 | 102-44 | 102-45 | 102-46 | 102-47 | 102-56
ECONOMIC
Priority Topics List of GRI Indicators Aspect Boundary
Based on our existing comprehensive analysis, we
Economic 201-1 Direct economic value Within organization
ensure continued alignment with the expectations of our
performance generated and distributed
stakeholders, the demands of our business, and enhanced
Anti-corruption 205-3 Confirmed incidents of Within organization
sustainability reporting. We identified a wider range of priority
corruption and actions taken
topics in comparison to previous years, a move which reflects
the inclusivity of our stakeholder engagement process and
our desire to report in a transparent manner. To ensure the
completeness of our materiality assessment, we reached
out to a wide variety of internal and external stakeholders
to gather a broad oversight of sustainability topics relevant
ENVIRONMENTAL
to Welltower and our industry. We leveraged our in-house
Priority Topics List of GRI Indicators Aspect Boundary
sustainability expertise, consulted with our technical staff,
Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within Common areas of
senior management, employees, and external consultants,
the organization properties with
and undertook desk-based assessments of industry trends,
operational control
Water 303-1 Water withdrawal
reporting mechanisms, and peers in the REIT industry. We
by source
integrated observations from internal engagements with the
views of our external stakeholders through a series of formal
and informal mechanisms, including collecting feedback from
tenants and operating partners through regular meetings
and interactions, periodic surveys, and our Welltower
Collaborative, which is an exclusive forum that brings our SOCIAL
operating partners together on an annual basis to share Priority Topics List of GRI Indicators Aspect Boundary
best practices and present new ideas and technologies. The
Occupational 403-1 Workers' representation in Within organization and
output of this process was a broad list of topics relevant to the health and safety formal joint management-worker tenants
economic, environmental and social impacts of our business. health and safety committees
We undertook a prioritization process, drawing on internal Training and 404-1 Average hours of training Within organization
and external expertise to define a list of priority topics. For education per year per employee
these topics, objectives have been set to support continued Socio-economic 419-1 Non-compliance with laws Within organization
management and improved performance in these areas. The compliance and regulations in the social and
economic area
topics identified through this process are:
CEO LETTER COVID-19 ABOUT COMMITMENT IMPACT STAKEHOLDERS SOCIAL GOVERNANCE DISCLOSURES 9
SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
Welltower established a Sustainability Management System (SMS)
as the framework to drive value and results through improved
ESG performance while mitigating many risks such as regulatory
compliance, functional obsolescence, climate, reputational, and
down cycle valuation. The SMS is part of our commitment to
continuous process improvement in ESG best practices most
fundamental to our business strategy, our employees, investors,
tenants, and key stakeholders in the communities in which we
reside and invest. This SMS has been designed and implemented
in general alignment with the International Organization for
ACT PLAN
Standardization (ISO) 14001 & 50001 standards in addition to the
ENERGY STAR® Guidelines for Energy Management and follows
the “Plan-Do-Check-Act” model:
• PLAN: Making a commitment, assessing current sustainability
performance status, setting ESG goals and creating a
CONTINUOUS
comprehensive ESG strategy and action plan
IMPROVEMENT
• DO: Implementing the action plan that includes
ESG training, sustainability project pilots, roll out of proven
projects, stakeholder communication, and the Welltower
Performance Playbook
CHECK DO
• CHECK: Evaluating progress to track and monitor
performance results, including benchmarking in ENERGY
STAR® Portfolio Manager® and ESG dashboard
• ACT: Recognizing achievements and celebrating successes
while identifying areas for improvement and adjusting course
as needed
CEO LETTER COVID-19 ABOUT COMMITMENT IMPACT STAKEHOLDERS SOCIAL GOVERNANCE DISCLOSURES 10
ENVIRONMENTAL
Impact
CEO LETTER COVID-19 ABOUT COMMITMENT IMPACT STAKEHOLDERS SOCIAL GOVERNANCE DISCLOSURES 11
Environmental Impact
103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 302-1 | 302-3 | 302-4 | 305-1 | 305-2 | 305-3 | 305-4 | 305-5
There is a critical interdependence between human health and the health of
our planet, driving our deep commitment to incorporating environmentally
friendly strategies, technologies, and best practices in our real estate
portfolio. We strive to reduce our environmental impact through tracking
utility consumption, implementing efficiency measures and projects to
reduce consumption and GHG emissions, and incorporating renewable
energy strategies such as green power purchasing.
OUR GOALS
In 2020 we increased data coverage across our portfolio in order to further
support our environmental goals with an evolved, comprehensive dataset
that better reflects Welltower’s portfolio and program evolution. Improved
data collection capabilities are possible through our valued partnership
with our seniors housing operators and medical office building teams who
support this effort. Our environmental goals provide a broader and more
inclusive representation of our portfolio:
10% Reduction in Greenhouse Gas Emissions and
Energy and Water Usage by 2025 over a 2018 Baseline
Our reporting framework for these goals is based on a financial control
boundary and includes all outpatient medical properties and all seniors
housing communities owned and operated under a joint venture.
Welltower-owned senior living communities and medical office buildings
operating under a triple-net lease structure will be considered out of the
financial control boundary and included as Scope 3 emissions data only.
Data is collected from all properties and estimated where collection is
not feasible.
CEO LETTER COVID-19 ABOUT COMMITMENT IMPACT STAKEHOLDERS SOCIAL GOVERNANCE DISCLOSURES 12
ENERGY AND GHG EMISSIONS 302-5 | 305-7
Welltower is committed to reducing our energy usage and greenhouse Belmont Village Senior Living
gas emissions through the direct operations of our outpatient medical
facilities and operational influence of our seniors housing portfolio. We
utilize ENERGY STAR® Guidelines for Energy Management to facilitate
continuous improvement as part of our commitment to excellence in
energy performance.
Welltower is a proud ENERGY STAR® partner
and was named a 2020 ENERGY STAR®
Partner of the Year for the second year in a
row, EPA’s signature recognition that
distinguishes corporate energy management programs which
demonstrate a commitment to organization-wide environmental best
practices and energy savings. This recognition demonstrates our ongoing
commitment to excellence in energy performance and our dedication to
the development of extraordinary homes for seniors and sustainable
health care infrastructure.
Welltower facilitated the feature of one of our operating
A key strategy for driving successful outcomes that help us meet our
partners, Belmont Village Senior Living, in Argentum’s
reduction goals is tracking environmental performance. We utilize
ENERGY STAR® Senior Living Toolkit that was released
ENERGY STAR® Portfolio Manager® to benchmark our outpatient
in 2020. Argentum is the leading national association
medical properties under operational control and we highly encourage
dedicated to supporting companies operating professionally
our senior living operating partners to utilize the tool to benchmark
managed senior living communities. The case study features
their performance as well. We are currently updating our benchmarking
one of our properties, West University, and its success as
processes for our managed medical office portfolio and increasing
an ENERGY STAR® certified community for the past five
training for our medical office property teams so that when the ENERGY
years. The case study explains how ENERGY STAR® Portfolio
STAR® medical office building certification is relaunched in 2021, our
Manager® is critical for helping Belmont Village monitor
proactive benchmarking efforts will allow us to certify several buildings.
property-by-property progress towards their energy, water,
and waste reduction goals. The case study also features that
In 2020, Welltower's ESG team hosted engagement sessions with both
on average, Belmont Village’s buildings are using 35% less
our seniors housing operators and our medical office property teams.
energy compared to similar buildings.
The ESG team trained operators and the medical office property team on
how to use ENERGY STAR® Portfolio Manager®, the benefits of using the
platform, and provided additional materials for training support.
CEO LETTER COVID-19 ABOUT COMMITMENT IMPACT STAKEHOLDERS SOCIAL GOVERNANCE DISCLOSURES 13
Efficiency Upgrades
In addition to benchmarking performance, we strategically invest in
Renewable Energy Buyers Alliance
energy reduction projects that make good business sense for our
outpatient medical portfolio. We provide sustainable purchasing
throughout our seniors housing portfolio so we can create exceptional
spaces for tenants and residents while helping the environment.
One of the most significant efficiency upgrades directly associated
with reduced GHG emissions is our LED Retrofit program. In addition
to the environmental benefits, LED retrofits provide enhanced lighting
for patients and visitors in our outpatient medical facilities as well
as for our senior living residents. With a focus on increasing lumens
when necessary, eliminating shadowing, and putting the right color
temperatures in the right spaces, this program has the potential to
not only reduce costs and our environmental footprint, but also to
improve daily lives of senior living residents. Working with supplier and
partner Greenleaf Energy Solutions, Welltower has facilitated 367 LED
retrofit projects to date totaling over $35M in investment, generating an
estimated $7.2M in operational cost savings with a return on investment
In 2020 Welltower joined the Renewable Energy Buyers
of under five years.
Alliance (REBA), which was founded with support from
some of the largest companies in the United States to
help large energy buyers drive the transition towards
Procurement and Renewables
a zero-carbon energy system with a viable path for
every organization to procure clean energy. Through its
We treat energy as a controllable expense resulting in our active
efforts, REBA intends to bring more than 60 gigawatts of
management and negotiation of energy rates and considerable efforts to
renewables online in the United States by 2025. Welltower
reduce our environmental impact through the procurement of renewable
is proud to join REBA and the largest group of corporate
energy. Welltower is an EPA Green Power Partner, showcasing our efforts
renewable energy buyers in the United States and
to use renewable energy, support of the development of new renewable
contribute to the mission of creating an easy, cost-effective
generation capacity throughout the U.S. and protect the environment.
path to buying renewable energy in a resilient carbon-free
Through green power contracts and on-site solar generation, we used
energy system.
over 33,00,000 kilowatt-hours of green power across our portfolio last
year, which is the equivalent to over 58.7 million miles driven by the
average passenger vehicle.
CEO LETTER COVID-19 ABOUT COMMITMENT IMPACT STAKEHOLDERS SOCIAL GOVERNANCE DISCLOSURES 14
WATER EFFICIENCY
Green Bond
103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 303-1 | 303-5
Since becoming the first U.S. health
care REIT to successfully complete a
Welltower manages water use through a responsible model that consists public green bond offering, Welltower
of benchmarking usage, monitoring usage trends, and utilizing low-flow has begun expanding green projects
and high-efficiency fixtures and equipment. While our strategy includes all from the offering's net proceeds in
properties within our financial control boundary, our strong relationships order to add sustainable value across
with operating partners outside of our operational control allow us to our portfolio. Eligible projects are
encourage and support them in their water management efforts. selected by members of Welltower’s
Green Bond Committee, consisting
Efficiency Projects of sustainability, capital markets,
investments, and treasury functions and in compliance with our
Water use throughout our portfolio primarily consists of domestic
water and irrigation. Recent projects to address water efficiency include third-party reviewed Green Bond Framework. Our first Green Bond
planting drought tolerant landscaping, installing drip irrigation systems, Allocation Report on proceeds utilized to date of $104.5 million
and installing leak detection technology, allowing us to: include these eligible project highlights:
• Monitor domestic water and irrigation leaks through slow leak and
• Financing or refinancing of properties which have or
high usage alerts
are anticipating high-level green building certification or
• Check equipment and fixtures to resolve leaks in a timely manner
energy rating
• Avoid extra costs on water bills because of early leak detection
• Energy and water efficiency upgrades designed to have
25% or higher efficiency gain, including LED lighting,
WASTE MANAGEMENT HVAC and chiller replacements, irrigation systems, and
installation of low flow fixtures
103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 306-2
USE OF PROCEEDS
Welltower is committed to comprehensive waste management through
numerous ongoing efforts, such as reducing landfill waste, increasing
recycling capabilities and rates, and making responsible purchasing
decisions that consider product lifecycle. All medical office buildings
within our operational control have recycling programs, and we continue Green Buildings Water Efficiency Energy Efficiency
to engage our senior living operating partners to educate and encourage
responsible waste management and diversion.
CEO LETTER COVID-19 ABOUT COMMITMENT IMPACT STAKEHOLDERS SOCIAL GOVERNANCE DISCLOSURES 15
2020 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE METRICS
4.9% SCOPE 1 AND 2 GHG EMISSIONS REDUCTION OVER 2018 BASELINE
Our benchmarking efforts, ongoing assessment of property
performance, and implementation of energy and water efficiency and
waste reduction strategies contribute to our goals of reducing energy 3.5% CONTROL BOUNDARY ENERGY SAVED OVER 2018 BASELINE
and water consumption and costs, landfill waste, and greenhouse gas
emissions. The full disclosure of all performance data and metrics can
be found on pages 52-53. 12.1% CONTROL BOUNDARY WATER SAVED OVER 2018 BASELINE
367 LED RETROFIT PROJECTS COMPLETED TO DATE
Waste and Recycling Generation (tons)
(Control Boundary)
$7.2M ESTIMATED ENERGY SAVINGS FROM LED RETROFITS TO DATE
2018 2019 2020
Waste 33,573 30,023 26,449
307 ENERGY, WATER, AND WASTE EFFICIENCY PROJECTS IMPLEMENTED
Recycling 7,258 6,055 5,998
Intensity Metrics
% CHANGE OVER % CHANGE FROM
2018 2019 2020
2018 BASELINE 2019 TO 2020
Scope 1 & 2 GHG Emissions* (MTCOe/1,000 sqft) 6.40 6.44 6.08 -4.9% -5.6%
2
Total Portfolio Energy (kBtu/sqft) 83.05 84.04 84.32 1.5% 0.3%
Total Energy in Control Boundary (kBtu/sqft) 81.63 80.08 78.79 -3.5% -1.6%
Total Portfolio Water (gallons/sqft) 50.00 53.00 50.00 0.1% -5.6%
Total Water in Control Boundary (gallons/sqft) 40.00 38.00 36.00 -12.1% -7.2%
* The floor area used to calculate the Scopes 1 & 2 emissions intensities and the total portfolio energy intensity is weighted for the time each property was operational during that reporting year.
For example, if an asset was purchased in March 2020, we would estimate its energy consumption for the days owned between March 2020 and 12/31/2020, not the whole year. By applying the
same coefficient (days owned in year / days in year) to the floor area, we are adjusting for properties that were acquired or disposed throughout the year.
CEO LETTER COVID-19 ABOUT COMMITMENT IMPACT STAKEHOLDERS SOCIAL GOVERNANCE DISCLOSURES 16
SUSTAINABLE PURCHASING AND SUPPLY CHAIN
102-9 | 102-10 | 308-1 A Beneficial Partnership
Strategic supplier partnerships help Welltower drive
Purchasing is an important piece of our responsible waste sustainability throughout its portfolio, reduce supply chain
management strategy. Through prioritizing purchases that have various risk, and facilitate purchasing of environmentally preferred
environmentally friendly characteristics, there is an embedded reduced products. A great example is the partnership with Shaw
environmental impact as well as a greater opportunity for responsible Flooring. Welltower has partnered with Shaw to purchase
end of life disposal. Welltower has developed partnerships with key Cradle to Cradle (C2C) carpet products that are 100%
vendors in our supply chain who have inherent sustainable business recyclable with guaranteed collection and recycling by Shaw,
models, which provides great opportunities for utilization of sustainable have no C2C banned list ingredients, and do not contain
products throughout our medical office portfolio. In 2020, Welltower any chemicals known to pose risk to human health and the
surveyed 13 of our top suppliers. Out of the suppliers who responded to greater ecosystem.
our questionnaire, no risks were identified.
To further Welltower’s commitment to responsible purchasing, these MEASURABLE PURCHASING IMPACTS
relationships have been extended to the seniors housing operating 332,838 sq ft C2C Carpet Tile in 2020
partners through the Welltower Advisory Services program, an initiative totaling 1,123,110 sq ft since 2017
created to actively seek services on behalf of our operating partners to
lower costs, improve services, reduce risk, and improve sustainability
throughout the entire Welltower portfolio. By selecting sustainable 202,900 Pounds
vendors offering superior pricing and/or services, Welltower drives
OF CARPET DIVERTED FROM LANDFILL IN 2020
participation and utilization. This collaborative effort helps to ensure that
our senior living communities have these sustainable vendors available to
2,350 Gallons
them at a preferred price point while simultaneously helping Welltower
and the vendors meet sustainability goals. OF GAS SAVED
ENOUGH TO DRIVE AN AVERAGE CAR FOR 50,300 MILES
100% purchasing of ENERGY STAR® computers
46,100 Pounds
$306,879 sustainable building supply OF CO EMISSIONS PREVENTED
2
purchases, 14% of total spend EQUIVALENT TO PLANTING 17 ACRES OF TREES
58% of office supply spend is eco-friendly
CEO LETTER COVID-19 ABOUT COMMITMENT IMPACT STAKEHOLDERS SOCIAL GOVERNANCE DISCLOSURES 17
BUILDING CERTIFICATIONS NEW DEVELOPMENT
103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 203-1 | 304-2
Providing high-quality and affordable health care to an aging global
population requires vast investments and infrastructure development.
Providing new development financing is a key investment strategy to
6 LEED® attain this goal, so Welltower works closely with partners to fund the
certified properties construction of properties.
While Welltower’s control over new development project criteria
is often limited, Welltower strives to build state-of-the-art facilities
that are environmentally friendly and promote health and wellness
for occupants. We seek to develop in large metro areas, allowing us
4 BREEAM® Property
to take advantage of existing infrastructure and minimize effects on
certifications
surrounding biodiversity. Additionally, regardless of their location,
our development projects assess and strive to conserve and maintain
the biodiversity/ecosystem so that our impact is minimized. Through
Welltower's Building Standards program, we incorporate energy and
water efficient equipment like high-efficiency lighting and low-flow
23 IREM® Certified Sustainable
fixtures in our new developments. We also consider human health and
Property certifications
wellbeing in our spaces, including measures such as using materials and
finishes that are low emitting to enhance indoor air quality.
31 ENERGY STAR®
certified properties
CEO LETTER COVID-19 ABOUT COMMITMENT IMPACT STAKEHOLDERS SOCIAL GOVERNANCE DISCLOSURES 18
The Balfour at Brookline
Located in the historic 1896 colonial/classical revival style building now known as
Mitton House, The Balfour at Brookline will open in 2023 in Brookline, Massachusetts.
Attention to the smallest of details will be paid when it comes to integrating locally
inspired, award-winning design into this community’s accommodations, amenities, and
services in a continuum of care for seniors in the Brookline and Metropolitan Boston
area. The Balfour at Brookline is pursuing LEED Gold certification through innovative
design that integrates environmental and health benefits throughout the construction
process. Sustainable attributes include:
• High efficiency HVAC, appliances, and plumbing fixtures that save energy and water
• Solar ready rooftop built with renewable energy in mind
• 40% of open space with native plants and pollinator-friendly landscaping
• 15% of parking equipped with electric vehicle charging stations, above the
2% requirement
• Subsidized public transportation and employee shuttles to the nearest subway station
Creating an Inclusive Local Economy
Our development firm partners are committed to the growth and development of
Minority owned and Women owned business enterprises (MBE/WBE) through the
implementation of an effective outreach and engagement plan and policies and
procedures in the procurement and delivery of preconstruction and construction
management services on The Balfour at Brookline project. This includes setting
objectives with measurable outcomes to utilize MBE/WBE in the Greater Boston
area through their Partner Accelerator Program. This program incorporates a
defined outreach plan with existing and new contacts including the Brookline
Office of Diversity, Inclusion and Community Relations, and other local and statewide
government offices, nonprofits, and trade associations committed to supporting the
economic enfranchisement of minority groups and women. As part of the
engagement process the project team offered trade partner training, development,
and support, including additional assistance for contractors needing preparation for
MBE/WBE certification if they did not already have it.
CEO LETTER COVID-19 ABOUT COMMITMENT IMPACT STAKEHOLDERS SOCIAL GOVERNANCE DISCLOSURES 19
STAKEHOLDER
Engagement
CEO LETTER COVID-19 ABOUT COMMITMENT IMPACT STAKEHOLDERS SOCIAL GOVERNANCE DISCLOSURES 20
Stakeholder Engagement
102-40 | 102-42 | 102-43
Welltower works together with both internal and external stakeholders to understand and implement the most effective engagement strategy for each
stakeholder group to meet their expectations. The following chart outlines how we engage with each stakeholder group in order to best gather and
incorporate stakeholder views when reviewing operational issues, identifying material topics, and developing our services.
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT METHOD
Employees • Publications and Policies (i.e., ESG website, Annual Welltower ESG report, Financial data and reports, Welltower Code of
Business Conduct and Ethics, white papers)
• Communication and engagement tools (i.e., Periodic employee surveys, dedicated internal communication platform, all staff
meetings, New Hire Onboarding on ESG, and periodic podcasts that communicate accomplishments, current projects, and
helpful tips)
• Reporting channels (i.e., Whistleblowing, Governance Hotline)
• Workshops and training sessions
Tenants and • Publications and Policies (i.e., ESG website, Annual Welltower ESG report, Quarterly Newsletters, Financial data and reports,
Operating Green tenant improvement guidelines)
Partners • Utilization of green lease
• Communication and engagement tools (i.e., newsletters and the Performance Playbook - an innovative and comprehensive
efficiency tool for seniors housing operating partners)
• Events throughout year around a variety of topics (i.e., energy efficiency, waste reduction and water conservation)
• Joint initiatives (i.e., Welltower Advisory Services – a mechanism that brings our operating partners together to share best
practices, build networks and plans for the future)
Investors • Publications and Policies (i.e., ESG website, Annual Welltower ESG report, Financial data and reports, press releases,
and Financial white papers)
Community • Periodic face-to-face discussions and meetings, conferences, and roadshows
• Reporting channels (i.e., Governance Hotline)
• Participation in investor ESG surveys and responding to ESG-related requests
CEO LETTER COVID-19 ABOUT COMMITMENT IMPACT STAKEHOLDERS SOCIAL GOVERNANCE DISCLOSURES 21
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT METHOD
Supply Chain • Publications and Policies (i.e., ESG website, Annual Welltower ESG report, Financial data and reports, press releases,
white papers)
• Quarterly business review meetings with key national suppliers
• U.K. Modern Slavery and human trafficking statement
• Communication and engagement tools
• Sustainability Survey, the biennial Vendor Evaluation questionnaire to measure vendor risk and opportunities
Local • Publications and Policies (i.e., ESG website, Annual Welltower ESG report, Financial data and reports, press releases,
Community white papers)
Partners • Participation in events (i.e., use of Welltower’s properties for local community events)
Agents and • Publications and Policies (i.e., ESG website, Annual Welltower ESG report, Financial data and reports, press releases,
Consultants white papers)
• Periodic face-to-face discussions and meetings
Government • Publications and Policies (i.e., ESG website, Annual Welltower ESG report, Financial data and reports, press releases,
Agencies white papers)
• Responding to Government consultations
• Meeting municipality requests which result in cost savings for Welltower and operators
• Advisory panels and focus groups (i.e., working with regulatory bodies, local authorities, officers and members on a wide range
of topics, such as local and state planning and policy development)
Industry Peers • Publications and Policies (i.e., ESG website, Annual Welltower ESG report, Financial data and reports, press releases,
white papers)
• Participation in multi-stakeholder forums and roundtables
• Participation and presentations at industry-wide events and conferences
• Participation in industry joint initiatives
• Trade and industry association leadership
Sustainability • Publications and Policies (i.e., ESG website, Annual Welltower ESG report, Financial data and reports, press releases)
Ranking • Participation in ESG indices (such as CDP, DJSI, and GRESB)
Organizations • Responding to ESG rating (ISS, MSCI, and Sustainalytics)
Any grievances relating to stakeholder engagement may be raised and communicated to: sustainability@welltower.com.
CEO LETTER COVID-19 ABOUT COMMITMENT IMPACT STAKEHOLDERS SOCIAL GOVERNANCE DISCLOSURES 22
A Performance Playbook INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION MEMBERSHIPS
To engage our seniors housing operators we
102-13
utilize the "Performance Playbook: A Guide for
Seniors Housing Efficiency and Excellence,"
user-friendly tool and resource to help our As an industry leader, we value our roles and affiliations with key
senior living operators find ways to reduce industry organizations and partners that challenge us, educate us, and
utility costs, increase NOI, and enhance the provide meaningful engagement with peers. Welltower is a member of
comfort of residents, visitors, and staff. the following industry associations at both the company and employee
level, including donations of time and membership funds totaling over
In 2020, we finalized tailored versions of the $550,000 in 2020.
Playbook for our seniors housing properties in the United Kingdom, and
plan to finalize a version for all medical office building properties. Each
section contains a simple overview, links to additional resources, and a
printable Action Plan to implement effective strategies at their community.
When new managers or operators join us, we provide customized training
on benchmarking their properties in ENERGY STAR® Portfolio Manager®
and access to the Playbook resource so they can get involved with our
efficiency initiatives immediately. In 2020, we continued to distribute our
Playbook for our operators to utilize and further created an international
version that was shared with our operators in the U.K. Engaging our
managers and operators to track and analyze energy, water, and waste
data for our medical office buildings and senior living communities allows
us to increase benchmarking efforts for properties within and outside
our control, creating a more holistic picture of performance across our
portfolio.
Connecting through Virtual Trivia Nights
With the onset of COVID-19 and the subsequent shift to a work-from-
home setting, Welltower’s Cultural Committee launched Trivia Nights
to boost employee engagement and enhance connectivity. Employees
from all of our offices were invited to form teams and partake in a night
of fun, with each member of the winning group taking home a prize
and bragging rights. The Trivia Nights were hosted in partnership with
Welltower’s wellness program, WELL+Being, and questions were focused
on promoting health and wellness knowledge among employees.
CEO LETTER COVID-19 ABOUT COMMITMENT IMPACT STAKEHOLDERS SOCIAL GOVERNANCE DISCLOSURES 23
SOCIAL
CEO LETTER COVID-19 ABOUT COMMITMENT IMPACT STAKEHOLDERS SOCIAL GOVERNANCE DISCLOSURES 24
Social
103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3
Wellness Focused through welltowerLIVING™
In 2020 we fully launched welltowerLIVING™, a wellness focused
CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP housing concept for residents aged 55 and over aimed to fulfill the
unmet need for purpose-built wellness and social focused private-
103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 pay housing that is affordable for moderate income seniors, many
of whom will be Medicare eligible. The growing population of
aging adults is expected to create significant demand for housing
Over 70% of seniors live on an income of less than $50,000 per year. By
options across all income levels, and welltowerLIVING delivers
delivering a built environment focused on maintaining and enhancing
a long-term solution through a a wellness-oriented, congregate
the social determinants of health for aging and other at-risk populations,
living community model designed with ADA compliant features,
Welltower is delivering on a long-term plan that achieves industry
community gathering spaces, and affordable monthly rents.
leading financial performance and builds shareholder value while
positively impacting some of today’s most pressing societal challenges,
including affordable housing and accessible healthcare for seniors.
Welltower is addressing societal issues for
senior citizens, including isolation,
homelessness, and access to care.
Initiatives include
• Facilitate Provider Sponsored Health Plans to enable a
comprehensive clinical and social wellness platform in the
residential setting
• Encourage and connect providers to enable on-site wrap-around
clinical and social offerings geared towards a 65+ age group
• Provide education and opportunities for low-deductible and low-
premium health insurance options for fixed-income residents
CEO LETTER COVID-19 ABOUT COMMITMENT IMPACT STAKEHOLDERS SOCIAL GOVERNANCE DISCLOSURES 25
THE WELLTOWER CHARITABLE FOUNDATION 413-1 WELLTOWER’S HUMAN CAPITAL
Welltower’s employees are our greatest asset. We are committed to
We believe that improving society’s existing value system regarding the
the success of our people and the unique combination of skills and
elderly and their care will positively transform the quality of life of an
experiences they bring to achieving Welltower’s mission. Development
aging population. From the people, resources, and organizations who
through the talent pipeline, recognizing and rewarding performance, and
provide planning, services, and care for the elderly, to influential thought
providing opportunities for continued growth are the cornerstones of our
leaders and policy makers, to those directly affected by aging, society
Human Capital strategy.
simply does not know where to turn when suddenly faced with the
realities of aging or caring for senior citizens. The Welltower Charitable
Since 2016 we have engaged employees in our “Walk the Walk” campaign
Foundation is dedicated to answering this and related challenges.
educating and engaging our employees to be leaders in sustainability, and
we encourage our tenants to do the same. We utilize numerous tools and
Since early 2016, Welltower and the Welltower Charitable Foundation have
strategies to engage employees in advancing sustainability, such as:
provided more than $42 million in cash and in-kind support to programs
and communities that align with our philanthropic priorities. In 2020, the
• “The Now,” our strongly subscribed podcast which includes
Foundation announced a new structure to include employee matching
ESG topics
and corporate charitable grant initiatives, as well as an allocation of funds
• Weekly sustainability updates to the Finance, Capital Markets and
to each of the Employee Network Groups (ENGs) to make charitable
contributions to 501(c)(3) organizations of their choice. With in-person Accounting teams
activities limited, we incorporated (Virtual) Days of Giving during 2020 • Welltower team and new hire ESG training
so our employees could collaborate to make an impact on our local
• Internal instant messaging and social media posts
communities such as building care packages to send to a seniors housing
• Social media posts
community. We plan to continue this tradition beyond 2020.
Welltower Award
$151,581
We acknowledge and reward the hard work and contributions of
IN 2020 CHARITABLE GIVING THAT INCLUDES, Welltower employees who support and further the Company’s
BUT IS NOT LIMITED TO,
strategic goals through the Welltower Award based on innovation,
THE FOLLOWING ORGANIZATIONS
leadership, value creation, and customer focus. Relaunched in
The Black Swamp Observatory
2020, multiple employees have received a Welltower Award over
NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund the past year, which includes company-wide recognition and a
monetary prize.
Thurgood Marshall College Fund
Toledo Museum of Art
United Way of Greater Toledo
CEO LETTER COVID-19 ABOUT COMMITMENT IMPACT STAKEHOLDERS SOCIAL GOVERNANCE DISCLOSURES 26
EMPLOYEES: RECRUITMENT, RETENTION, AND DEVELOPMENT 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 201-3 | 401-1 | 401-2 | 401-3 | 404-1 | 404-2 | 404-3
Robust Employee Benefits: Performance Management
• Health care We sustain a high-performance culture
• Short and long-term disability coverage by measuring performance, recognizing
Welltower offers employees
employee achievements, and identifying
• Life insurance
benefits, resources, trainings, areas of development
• Parental and extended care giver leave
and tools designed to develop • Student loan repayment
Employee Development
• An employee stock purchase plan
future leaders, advance careers,
Employees and their managers work
• Retirement plan options
and attract and retain the best together to identify the plans and
resources necessary to support future
Development Programs
and brightest talent.
professional growth
• Education Assistance
Training and Education
• Rotational Associate Program
$294,497 • Manager Development Program In 2020, we invested over $290,000 in
• Internship Program our workforce through instructor led
INVESTED IN EMPLOYEE TRAINING IN 2020
• Mentorship Program programming, web-based self-study,
tuition assistance, and support to attend
• Free membership to EPIC, a Toledo-
$787.43
based young professionals' organization conferences and seminars
SPENT ON AVERAGE PER FULL TIME EQUIVALENT
(FTE) ON TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT
93% Hours of Training by Category Training by Gender
OF EMPLOYEES RECEIVED ESG SPECIFIC TRAINING Non- Manager 1,698.7 Male 1,872.8
Manager 845.5 Female 1,143.8
8 AVP/Director 205.4
AVERAGE TRAINING HOURS PER FTE VP 221.2 2020 Retention Rate
SVP/Executive 45.8 86.57%
$79,600
OF TUITION REIMBURSEMENT PROGRAM Voluntary Employee Turnover
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
8.9% 8.2% 10.7% 14.4% 9.2% 6.1%
CEO LETTER COVID-19 ABOUT COMMITMENT IMPACT STAKEHOLDERS SOCIAL GOVERNANCE DISCLOSURES 27
WORKFORCE DIVERSITY AND
EQUAL OPPORTUNITY
102-8 | 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 401-1 | 405-1 | 405-2 | 412-2
At Welltower, diversity and inclusion is not only the right thing to do,
but it is also directly connected to our history of strong, sustained
performance. We differentiate ourselves as industry leaders by
championing gender equity and diversity in our boardrooms, C-suites,
leadership teams, and employee base, including approximately 40%
of our Leadership Team made up of women and minorities. Welltower
understands that fostering diversity and inclusion allows us to benefit
from understanding, appreciating, and leveraging our differences in order
to give our organization a global business advantage. We are committed
to making Welltower a diverse and inclusive workplace, as well as valuing
our people for who they are as much as what they contribute.
As an industry and community leader, Welltower has demonstrated
a firm commitment to the expansion and support of Justice, Equity, The Diversity and Inclusion Council’s mission is to foster a shared
Diversity, and Inclusion (JEDI) across multiple different categories in the culture at Welltower that promotes the goals of accepting,
workplace. Welltower’s Diversity & Inclusion Council (Diversity Council) respecting, and valuing differences that include attributes such
carries out Welltower’s core values by celebrating and harnessing as age, race, gender, ethnicity, religion, sexual orientation, gender
the strengths of our diverse organization. Our diversity efforts allow expression, sexual identity, ability, language, family circumstances,
Welltower employees to build a sense of community by expanding and cultural backgrounds.
networks beyond our offices, functions, and teams in a complex
organization such as ours. The Diversity Council benefits Welltower's
stakeholders and continued success by:
• Attracting and retaining talent with a broad variety of skills, a key
87%
attribute to the Welltower talent experience
OF EMPLOYEES PARTICIPATED IN A
• More effectively addressing the market, tenant, and resident needs "BUILDING AN INCLUSIVE WORKPLACE" TRAINING
• Growing our footprint by winning new business
CEO LETTER COVID-19 ABOUT COMMITMENT IMPACT STAKEHOLDERS SOCIAL GOVERNANCE DISCLOSURES 28
EMPLOYEE NETWORK GROUPS DIVERSITY THROUGH OUR
DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS
Welltower has encouraged and expanded our focus on demographic
Our Rotational Associate, Mentorship, and Manager Development
diversity within the workplace through the successful launch of several
programs bolster diversity and inclusion by creating leadership paths
Employee Network Groups (ENG), with ENG leaders participating in the
for underrepresented groups through targeted engagement. For
Diversity Council. Our ENGs include:
example, our Rotational Associate Program has seen increased diversity
• Af-Am ENG representation by meeting with minority groups at the universities where
we recruit. Through these programs, we are able to develop a robust
• Armed Forces ENG group of future leaders while championing Welltower’s commitment to
fostering a welcoming, diverse workplace.
• Hispanic ENG
Welltower offers civil treatment and unconscious bias training to its
• LGBTQI+ ENG managers, stressing the importance of diversity and inclusion related
topics. Our training enables Welltower leaders with knowledge and
• Parents ENG
insight to create more inclusive environments for our workforce.
• South Asian ENG
• WELL+CORE Women’s ENG
• Young Professionals ENG
In addition to issuing a public Call for Peace and Understanding,
Welltower hosted a 2020 Welltower Diversity Forum, a WELL+CORE
Corporate Social Responsibility Forum, as well as multiple employee-
led small group conversations on equity and justice. Welltower honors
multiple days and months across the company for JEDI aligned
education and remembrance, including: Black History Month, Juneteenth,
Martin Luther King Day, Memorial Day, Women’s History Month, and
Pride Month. Employees also participate in WELL-READ, Welltower’s
book club, founded with the mission of promoting diversity and inclusion
through discussion of books that have been picked by our ENGs.
CEO LETTER COVID-19 ABOUT COMMITMENT IMPACT STAKEHOLDERS SOCIAL GOVERNANCE DISCLOSURES 29
An Accepting Workplace
Welltower marked the 51st anniversary of Pride Month and its
celebration of rejecting intolerance and building an equitable future
for all. We aim consistently to be a strong ally of the LGBTQIA+
community beyond Pride Month by supporting and celebrating
the power of diversity, equity, and inclusion that Welltower fosters
through our accepting workplace. Though in-person events were
limited this year, Welltower regularly serves as a proud sponsor of
the annual Toledo Pride Parade, Northwest Ohio’s largest and most
recognized event for the LGBTQIA+ community
Championing Gender Equity
Welltower is extremely proud of our strong commitment to
gender equality, including continuing to achieve 1:1 gender parity
across the organization. This further affirms our long-standing
commitment to achieving gender equality and empowering
women in our workplace. Our actions span from our internal
WELL+CORE women’s network that seeks to accelerate the
development and advancement of women at Welltower, a CORE
Women’s ENG Corporate Responsibility Forum, to a number
of industry-wide honors for our work to champion women in
leadership. For the second time, Welltower was among a global
group of 325 companies selected to the 2020 Bloomberg Gender-
Equality Index for promoting gender equality across four separate
areas – company statistics, policies, community engagement, and
products and services.
On the 100th anniversary of the 19th Amendment and women’s
constitutional right to vote, Welltower honored the 2020
centennial marker of all the courageous women who never gave up
the fight for equality. We celebrate the contributions of our female
colleagues through our participation in the global International
Women’s Day (IWD) recognizing the social, economic, cultural, and
political achievements of women.
CEO LETTER COVID-19 ABOUT COMMITMENT IMPACT STAKEHOLDERS SOCIAL GOVERNANCE DISCLOSURES 30
EMPLOYEE DEMOGRAPHICS TOTAL COMPENSATION
We annually evaluate and benchmark the consistency and
New Hires by Gender 2020 New Hires
competitiveness of our compensation programs to ensure fair pay
that are Minorities
practices that reward performance.
SVP/Executive .80 to 1
47% 53%
18%
Director/Assistant VP & VP .94 to 1
Manager .84 to 1
• •
FEMALE MALE
Non Manager .89 to 1
• •
Employees by Gender Employees Age FEMALE MALE
<30 13%
Female 201
30-50 58%
Male 213
>50 29%
Gender Breakdown by Level
Supporting our Military
Female Male
Non- Manager 49% 51% At Welltower we hold all
members of the military in
Manager 60% 40%
the highest esteem and are
AVP/Director 38% 62%
a signatory of the Employer
VP 34% 66%
Support of the Guard & Reserve (ESGR) Statement of
SVP/Executive 18% 82% Support pledging our support for employees serving in the
Board 50% 50% military. In addition to our employees who are members
of the guard and reserve, we have numerous veterans
Employees by Race/Ethnicity throughout our over 1,300 seniors housing properties who
have served our country with valor in World War II, the
Asian 5%
Korean War and the Vietnam War. We honor them and are
Black or African American 7%
grateful for their service every day.
Hispanic/Latino 7%
Other 1%
CEO LETTER COVID-19 ABOUT COMMITMENT IMPACT STAKEHOLDERS SOCIAL GOVERNANCE DISCLOSURES 31
HEALTH, SAFETY, AND WELLNESS
Safety Committee
103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 403-1 | 403-2 | 403-3 | 403-4
Our safety committee is representative of various functional
403-5 | 403-6 | 403-9 | 404-1 | 404-2 | 404-3 departments across the organization. The committee’s
objective is to support our safety program and promote
We focus on safety and wellness for our employees, tenants, and visitors employee participation in the safety process. This forum
as a priority in safeguarding the health of our people. Providing safe work empowers employees to take ownership of their safety and
environments is not only material to our success and bottom line, but it the safety of those around them, building trust between
also protects our valued stakeholders throughout our properties. We have
management and employees and leading to reduced injury,
a number of programs in place that ensure a culture of safety. We measure
accident, and near miss rates.
success through monitoring the number of employees that received
safety training, measuring progress towards our goal of zero lost time for
incidents, and aligning with WELL+Being program goals.
Safety Training
Lost Time Incident Rate Our safety program utilizes training as a vital part of educating
employees on recognizing common safety risks and the
Welltower's lost time incident rate continues to be below the industry
actions they can take to mitigate those risks. Through regular
average. In 2020, we had a lost time incident rate of 3.89 lost days on
training, employees learn how to put safety first throughout
average for every 100 employees, below industry averages due to our
organization-wide safety measures. Welltower had zero work-related their workday.
fatalities for employees and contractors in 2020.
Safety Inspections
Thorough safety inspections of our properties assess a
variety of operational factors for potential risks. These routine
inspections provide recommendations on how to minimize
risks and enhance safety.
Contractor Safety
Engaging external stakeholders is imperative in delivering
excellence through all aspects of our business activities. We
require contractors to follow applicable regulations and to
work in a safe manner when completing projects for Welltower.
CEO LETTER COVID-19 ABOUT COMMITMENT IMPACT STAKEHOLDERS SOCIAL GOVERNANCE DISCLOSURES 32
WELL+BEING PROGRAM
We believe in empowering our employees with the knowledge and tools
to make healthy and positive lifestyle decisions through our signature
wellness program, WELL+Being. Our program focuses on mental and
physical health challenges that commonly affect employees, and offers
tools such as fitness classes, gym membership reimbursements, healthy
meal options, stress relief programs, seminars, and health screenings to
address those issues. With employees shifting to work from home, we
leveraged the WELL+Being program to encourage our employees to be
active, such as providing at-home wellness challenges and trivia nights to
educate employees about health and wellness.
Increased participation in our employee health screening program leads
to year over year improvements in our employees' health.
Spotlight on WELL+Being
181 employees participated
in wellness challenges
$48,000 in gym
membership reimbursements
77 flu shots provided
38.1M steps recorded from 305 entries taking steps towards building a culture
of health and wellness in the workplace
CEO LETTER COVID-19 ABOUT COMMITMENT IMPACT STAKEHOLDERS SOCIAL GOVERNANCE DISCLOSURES 33
GOVERNANCE
CEO LETTER COVID-19 ABOUT COMMITMENT IMPACT STAKEHOLDERS SOCIAL GOVERNANCE DISCLOSURES 34
Governance
102-15 | 102-18 | 102-19 | 102-20 | 102-22 | 102-23 | 102-29 | 102-30 | 102-31 | 102-32 | 102-33 | 102-35
RISK MANAGEMENT
Welltower is dedicated to adopting the best corporate governance
practices that meet the dynamic needs of the corporate governance
Welltower’s Board of Directors regularly reviews Welltower’s significant
environment. We are a member of the Chief Executives for Corporate
risk exposure, including operational, strategic, financial, legal,
Purpose (CECP) coalition and our CEO presented our second long-term
environmental sustainability and regulatory risks. The effectiveness of
plan to top business leaders who are committed to tackling society's
our enterprise risk management procedures is regularly analyzed and
challenging problems as part of their 8th Annual CEO Investor Forum.
communicated with our Board. Welltower evaluates climate change
Welltower adopted Corporate Governance Guidelines to promote the
through climate risk assessments that measure impacts to properties
effective functioning of the Board of Directors and its committees. These
throughout our portfolio. Our risk assessment process informs the
Guidelines, along with the Certificate of Incorporation, By-Laws, and
development of our policies and the training we deliver to our employees
Board committee charters, provide the framework for the governance of
around anti-corruption, business ethics, and climate action.
Welltower.
ESG GOVERNANCE CYBERSECURITY
Welltower’s sustainability and ESG governance structure has evolved Welltower’s Management team identifies and assesses the
and strengthened our ESG program and commitment in the past several information security risks using the industry practices aligned to
years. Since appointing our first Assistant Vice President of Sustainability the recommendation from the National Institute of Standards and
and ESG in 2019, the ESG team grew in 2020 with the hiring of a full time Technology (NIST) and engages independent security firms to review
ESG Analyst to support the AVP of Sustainability and ESG and focus and assess cybersecurity capabilities and preparedness. Welltower has
on sustainability data and benchmarking. The AVP position is located not experienced any material information security breaches and has not
within Welltower’s Finance Department and has a direct line to the Chief incurred any material expenses related to such in the last three years.
Financial Officer, who reports to the Chief Executive Officer. This allows
for regular flow of information not only to the Chief Executive Officer, The Audit Committee regularly receives a cybersecurity update from
but also to the Board of Directors. Additionally, our executive leadership management, including the status of projects to strengthen Welltower’s
team performance requirements have expanded to include ESG goals security systems and improve cyber readiness as well as on existing
that flow down to all employees in order to span organization wide and emerging threat landscapes. Welltower provides mandatory annual
ESG engagement. cybersecurity training for all employees with network access. Welltower
also maintains a security risk insurance policy.
CEO LETTER COVID-19 ABOUT COMMITMENT IMPACT STAKEHOLDERS SOCIAL GOVERNANCE DISCLOSURES 35
BOARD DIVERSITY
Welltower’s Independent Director leadership on the Board of Directors Welltower was named to the 2020 Bloomberg
includes 80% female and minority representation, putting us at the very Gender-Equality Index (GEI) for the second
top of all S&P 500 companies for Board diversity. In 2020, Welltower consecutive year. Welltower joined a global group
increased its racial and gender diversity on the Board through its of 325 companies that were included in the year's
appointments of a racially diverse independent Chairman, and women GEI by setting an example to advance women
or ethnically diverse individuals to leadership positions on four Board
in the workplace. We are pleased to surpass the
Committees. This diversity also extends to the Board's skill set as our
average 20% female board representation and
Board brings vertical expertise in areas such as health care, health
achieve gender parity at 50% female Directors.
insurance, real estate, cyber security, and hospitality. We found when you
recruit board members based on skills and experience, it is easy to end
up with a diverse group whose strengths challenge our management
team in positive ways.
Kenneth J. Bacon
CHAIRMAN AND Karen B. DeSalvo Jeffrey H. Donahue Philip L. Hawkins Shankh Mitra
INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR DIRECTOR
Sharon M. Oster Diana W. Reid SSeerrggiioo DD.. RRiivveerraa Johnese M. Spisso Kathryn M. Sullivan
INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR IINNDDEEPPEENNDDEENNTT DDIIRREECCTTOORR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR
CEO LETTER COVID-19 ABOUT COMMITMENT IMPACT STAKEHOLDERS SOCIAL GOVERNANCE DISCLOSURES 36
ANTI-CORRUPTION EMPLOYEE ETHICS
102-17 | 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 102-25 | 205-1 | 205-2 | 415-1 Providing regular training to employees is part of our dedication to
ethical behavior and business practices. These trainings facilitate
employee awareness and understanding of our policies, anti-corruption
Integrity and ethical compliance with all applicable laws, regulations, and
laws and regulations, and clarify behavioral expectations when
policies is the standard of conduct required by our directors, officers, and
conducting business. These trainings provide employees additional
employees. Our Code of Business Conduct and Anti-Corruption Policies
resources and information on what is considered unethical behavior and
detail the responsible business conduct we expect from our employees
how they should respond when confronted with situations that deviate
and those doing business on behalf of Welltower. These documents
from Welltower's ethical standards as a business leader.
outline policies and resources employees have if they have questions or
concerns. We also distribute the Anti-Corruption Policy upon hire and All of Welltower's governance documents are publicly available
annually in our employee handbook and intranet. Our General Counsel on our website, including a Governance Hotline for anyone who has a
provides oversight for the Code of Business Conduct and Anti-Corruption concern regarding questionable accounting, internal accounting controls,
Policy. These documents are reviewed annually and updated as necessary. or auditing matters relating to Welltower Inc.
CEO LETTER COVID-19 ABOUT COMMITMENT IMPACT STAKEHOLDERS SOCIAL GOVERNANCE DISCLOSURES 37
DISCLOSURES
CEO LETTER COVID-19 ABOUT COMMITMENT IMPACT STAKEHOLDERS SOCIAL GOVERNANCE DISCLOSURES 38
Disclosures
TCFD Disclosures
PAGE NUMBER
GOVERNANCE
Board's oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities 8
Management role in assessing and managing climate-related risks and opportunities 8
STRATEGY
Climate-related risks and opportunities we have identified over the short, medium and long term 8
Impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organizations business, strategy, and financial planning 8
Resilience of the organization's strategy taking into consideration different climate-related scenarios, including a 2 degrees C 8
or lower scenario
RISK MANAGEMENT
Organizational processes for identifying assessing and managing climate-related risk 8
Organizational process for managing climate-related risks 8
Process for identifying, assessing, and managing climate-related risks as integrated into the organization's overall risk 8
management.
METRICS AND TARGETS
Metrics used to assess climate-related risks and opportunities in line with strategy and risk management process 8, 16, 52
Scope 1 and 2 Greenhouse Gas Emissions and related risks 8, 16, 52
Targets used by the organization to manage climate-related risks and opportunities and performance against targets 8, 16, 52
CEO LETTER COVID-19 ABOUT COMMITMENT IMPACT STAKEHOLDERS SOCIAL GOVERNANCE DISCLOSURES 39
SASB Disclosures
UNIT OF MEASURE TOTAL CODE RESPONSE PAGE
ENERGY MANAGEMENT
Energy consumption data coverage Percentage (%) 100% IF-RE-130a.1 52
as a percentage of total floor area, by by floor area
property subsector
(1) Total energy consumed by Gigajoules (GJ), (1) 10,866,635 GJ IF-RE-130a.2 52
portfolio area with data coverage, (2) Percentage (%)
(3) 1.1%
percentage grid electricity, and (3)
percentage renewable, by property
subsector
Percentage of eligible portfolio that Percentage (%) (1) 27.6% of portfolio IF-RE-130a.4 18
(1) has an energy rating and by floor area
(2) 2% of seniors housing
(2) is certified to ENERGY STAR®,
by property subsector
Description of how building energy To help our managers and operators successfully benchmark their IF-RE-130a.5 21
management considerations are buildings and improve energy efficiency, we utilize the Welltower
integrated into property investment Performance Playbook: A Guide for Seniors Housing Efficiency
analysis and operational strategy and Excellence. Through the Playbook, operators and managers
can learn about industry-standard maintenance best practices,
no-and low-cost efficiency projects, project resources, and
action plans for managing energy, water, and waste. When new
operators join us, we share the Playbook and a recording of the
benchmarking training with them so they can get involved with
our efficiency initiatives immediately. We also continued our LED
retrofit initiative across our portfolio.
CEO LETTER COVID-19 ABOUT COMMITMENT IMPACT STAKEHOLDERS SOCIAL GOVERNANCE DISCLOSURES 40
SASB Disclosures
UNIT OF MEASURE TOTAL CODE RESPONSE PAGE
WATER MANAGEMENT
Water withdrawal data coverage as a Percentage (%) by floor (1) 49% IF-RE-140a.1 52
percentage of (1) total floor area and area
(2) floor area in regions with High or
Extremely High Baseline Water Stress,
by property subsector
(1) Total water withdrawn by portfolio Thousand cubic meters (1) 11,804,713 m3 IF-RE-140a.2 52
area with data coverage and (2) (m3), Percentage (%)
percentage in regions with High or
Extremely High Baseline Water Stress,
by property sector
Description of water management Welltower uses a sustainable model to monitor water usage, IF-RE-140a.4 15
risks and discussion of strategies and including benchmarking, high-efficiency fixtures, and low-flow
practices to mitigate those risks plumbing. Recent projects to address water efficiency include
planting drought tolerant landscaping, installing drip irrigation
systems, and installing leak detection technology, allowing us to
monitor domestic water usage and leaks, check equipment to
resolve leaks in a timely manner, and avoid extra costs on water
bills due to leak detection.
CEO LETTER COVID-19 ABOUT COMMITMENT IMPACT STAKEHOLDERS SOCIAL GOVERNANCE DISCLOSURES 41
SASB Disclosures
UNIT OF MEASURE TOTAL CODE RESPONSE PAGE
MANAGEMENT OF TENANT SUSTAINABILITY IMPACTS
Discussion of approach to measuring, Welltower provides new tenants with a copy of our Tenant 21
incentivizing, and improving Improvement Guidelines where we encourage the use of ENERGY
sustainability impacts of tenants STAR® labeled products. We also engage potential tenants with
our standard green lease, which includes language on data
sharing, benchmarking in ENERGY STAR® Portfolio Manager®, and
the ability to recover costs for capital projects that lower building
operating costs. To date in 2020, we have executed 580 green
leases representing over 1.66 million square feet of medical office
space. Because of our widespread implementation of this green
leasing initiative, we were named a 2020 Green Lease Leader at
the gold level by the Institute for Market Transformation and the
Better Buildings program. We were first awarded the Green Lease
Leader distinction in 2017, and we are eligible to reapply every
three years.
CLIMATE CHANGE ADAPTION
Description of climate change Welltower’s Board of Directors regularly reviews Welltower’s IF-RE-450a.2 8
risk exposure analysis, degree of significant risk exposure, including operational, strategic, financial,
systematic portfolio exposure, and legal, environmental sustainability and regulatory risks. The
strategies for mitigating risks effectiveness of our enterprise risk management procedures is
regularly analyzed and communicated to our Board. Welltower
evaluates climate change through climate risk assessments that
measure impacts to properties throughout our portfolio. Our risk
assessment process informs the development of our policies and
the training we deliver to our employees around anti-corruption,
business ethics, and climate action.
CEO LETTER COVID-19 ABOUT COMMITMENT IMPACT STAKEHOLDERS SOCIAL GOVERNANCE DISCLOSURES 42
GRI 102: General Disclosures
RESPONSE PAGE
ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE
102-1 Name of the organization 4
102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 4
102-3 Location of headquarters 4
102-4 Location of operations 4
102-5 Ownership and legal form 4
102-6 Markets served 4
102-7 Scale of the organization 4
102-8 Information on employees and other workers 27
102-9 Supply chain 17
102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 17
102-11 Precautionary Principle or Approach 8
102-12 External initiatives 9
102-13 Membership of associations 23
STRATEGY
102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 1
102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 8, 35
CEO LETTER COVID-19 ABOUT COMMITMENT IMPACT STAKEHOLDERS SOCIAL GOVERNANCE DISCLOSURES 43
GRI 102: General Disclosures
RESPONSE PAGE
ETHICS AND INTEGRITY
102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 1
102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 37
GOVERNANCE
102-18 Governance structure 35
102-19 Delegating authority 35
102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics 1, 35
102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental and social topics 9
102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 36
102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 36
102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body 9 (2020 Proxy Statement)
102-25 Conflicts of interest 37
102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values and strategy 1 (2020 Proxy Statement)
102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body 2 (2020 Proxy Statement)
102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body's performance 10 (2020 Proxy Statement)
102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental and social impacts 35
102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes 35
CEO LETTER COVID-19 ABOUT COMMITMENT IMPACT STAKEHOLDERS SOCIAL GOVERNANCE DISCLOSURES 44
GRI 102: General Disclosures
RESPONSE PAGE
102-31 Review of economic, environmental and social Our Corporate Governance Guidelines and 2020 Proxy Statement provide information
topics on how the results of the enterprise risk management process are communicated to
the Board. Through this process, a number of important long-term emerging risks
have been identified, including but not limited to:
• Cybersecurity incidents, which could disrupt the business and result in the loss
of confidential information. Welltower employs a number of measures to prevent,
mitigate and detect cybersecurity risks. These include, but are not limited to,
routine IT risk assessments to review the environment and proactively remediate
vulnerabilities; robust authentication mechanisms to prevent unauthorized
access to our systems and data; and mandatory employee awareness training to
inform and educate our personnel about cyber threats and attacks. We establish,
document and enforce controls, policies and procedures that govern and protect
the Company’s data and information systems.
• Ownership of property outside of the U.S. that may subject Welltower to different,
or greater, risks than those associated with domestic operations. This includes
operations in the UK, accounting for 10% of Welltower’s total revenue as of
December 31, 2020.
102-32 Highest governance body's role in sustainability reporting 36
102-33 Communicating critical concerns 36
102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns There were no critical concerns
in 2020.
102-35 Remuneration policies 35
102-36 Process for determining remuneration 8 (2020 Proxy Statement)
102-37 Stakeholders involvement in remuneration 8 (2020 Proxy Statement)
CEO LETTER COVID-19 ABOUT COMMITMENT IMPACT STAKEHOLDERS SOCIAL GOVERNANCE DISCLOSURES 45
GRI 102: General Disclosures
RESPONSE PAGE
102-38 Annual total compensation ratio 14 (2020 Proxy Statement)
102-39 Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio 14 (2020 Proxy Statement)
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
102-40 List of stakeholder groups 21-22
102-41 Collective bargaining agreements As of December 31, 2020,
no Welltower employees
are subject to a collective
bargaining agreement
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 9, 21-22
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 9, 21-22
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 9
REPORTING PRACTICES
102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 9
102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries 9
102-47 List of material topics 9
102-48 Restatements of information 12
CEO LETTER COVID-19 ABOUT COMMITMENT IMPACT STAKEHOLDERS SOCIAL GOVERNANCE DISCLOSURES 46
GRI 102: General Disclosures
RESPONSE PAGE
102-49 Changes in reporting 12
102-50 Reporting period This report covers
calendar year 2020
102-51 Date of most recent report 2019 calendar report
published July 2020
102-52 Reporting cycle Reports issued annually
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 58
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI standards 43-51
102-55 GRI content index 43
102-56 External assurance 54-57
GRI 103: Management Approach
RESPONSE PAGE
ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 12-19, 25-33, 35-36
103-2 The management approach and its components 12-19, 25-33, 35-36
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 12-19, 25-33, 35-36
CEO LETTER COVID-19 ABOUT COMMITMENT IMPACT STAKEHOLDERS SOCIAL GOVERNANCE DISCLOSURES 47
GRI 200: Economic
RESPONSE PAGE
GRI 201: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 4
201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change 8
201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans 27
201-4 Financial assistance received from government In 2020, the US Department of Health and Human Services allowed for senior
living facilities to apply for CARES Act Provider Relief Fund in which Welltower
and our partners applied for Phase 2 and Phase 3 amounts. These grants were
supplied by the government to offset some of the COVID financial impacts
at our communities. We received a portion of these funds in 2020 with the
remaining flowing through in 2021.
GRI 203: INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS
203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 18
203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 4
GRI 205: ANTI-CORRUPTION
205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 37
205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 37
205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Welltower did not incur any fines or settlements related to anti-
competitive practices, no incidents of corruption, and no breaches
against our code of conduct during the reporting year.
CEO LETTER COVID-19 ABOUT COMMITMENT IMPACT STAKEHOLDERS SOCIAL GOVERNANCE DISCLOSURES 48
GRI 300 Environmental
RESPONSE PAGE
GRI 302: ENERGY
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 12-14, 52
302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization 12-14, 52
302-3 Energy intensity 12-14, 52
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 12-14, 52
302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 13-14, 52
GRI 303: WATER AND EFFLUENTS
303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource 15, 52
303-5 Water consumption 15, 52
GRI 304: BIODIVERSITY
304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity 18
GRI 305: EMISSIONS
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 12, 52
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 12, 52
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 12, 52
305-4 GHG emissions intensity 12, 52
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 12, 52
305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other significant air emissions 13, 16, 52
CEO LETTER COVID-19 ABOUT COMMITMENT IMPACT STAKEHOLDERS SOCIAL GOVERNANCE DISCLOSURES 49
GRI 300 Environmental
RESPONSE PAGE
GRI 307: ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE
307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Welltower is compliant with
all material environmental laws
and regulations.
GRI 308: SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 18
GRI 400 Social
RESPONSE PAGE
GRI 401: EMPLOYMENT
401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 27-37
401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees 27
401-3 Parental leave 27
GRI 403: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY
403-1 Occupational health and safety management system 32
403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation 32
403-3 Occupational health services 32
403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication on occupational health and safety 32
403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety 32
CEO LETTER COVID-19 ABOUT COMMITMENT IMPACT STAKEHOLDERS SOCIAL GOVERNANCE DISCLOSURES 50
GRI 400 Social
RESPONSE PAGE
403-6 Promotion of worker health 32
403-9 Work-related injuries 32
GRI 404: TRAINING AND EDUCATION
404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 27, 32
404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 27, 32
404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews 27, 32
GRI 405: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 28-31
405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men 28-31
GRI 406: NON-DISCRIMINATION
406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective Welltower is an equal opportunity employer and had no legal matters relating
actions taken to discrimination where corrective actions were required to be taken.
GRI 412: HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT
412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures 28
GRI 413: LOCAL COMMUNITIES
413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs 26
GRI 415: PUBLIC POLICY
415-1 Political contributions Page 5 of our Code of Business Conducts and Ethics states that “no Welltower funds
may be given directly to political candidates”. This statement is supplemented with a
“Political Contribution Policy” that can be found on our website.
CEO LETTER COVID-19 ABOUT COMMITMENT IMPACT STAKEHOLDERS SOCIAL GOVERNANCE DISCLOSURES 51
TOTAL CONSUMPTION 2020 DATA COVERAGE
Data
% % Coverage
Change Change Data Data Total as a % of
over from Coverage Coverage Total Portfolio Total Floor
2018 2019 to Floor Area Building Portfolio Building Area
2018 2019 2020 baseline 2020 Total Count Floor Area Count (% sq ft)
GHG EMISSIONS
Emissions Totals (MTCOe)
2
Emissions Totals
875,122 891,830 856,905 -2.1% -3.9% 129,447,141 1,698 129,447,141 1,698 100%
(Location-Based)
Scope 1 & 2 GHG Emissions1 426,434 506,332 478,844 12.3% -5.4% 85,152,805 909 85,152,805 909 100%
Emissions by Scope (MTCOe)
2
Scope 12 115,845 137,120 126,656 9.3% -7.6% 85,152,805 909 85,152,805 909 100%
Scope 2 (location-based)2 310,589 369,212 352,188 13.4% -4.6% 85,152,805 909 85,152,805 909 100%
Scope 2 (market-based)2 296,630 369,096 342,355 15.4% -7.2% 85,152,805 909 85,152,805 909 100%
Scope 33 448,688 385,498 378,061 -15.7% -1.9% 44,294,336 789 44,294,336 789 100%
ENERGY PERFORMANCE
Energy (Kbtu)
Total Energy (kBtu) 9,642,522,349 10,185,060,302 10,299,582,773 6.8% 1.1% 129,447,141 1,698 129,447,141 1,698 100%*
Energy Total (control) 5,440,856,976 6,292,235,224 6,202,614,250 14% -1.4% 85,152,805 909 85,152,805 909 100%
Energy Total (non-control) 4,201,665,374 3,892,825,077 4,096,968,523 -2.5% 5.2% 44,294,336 789 44,294,336 789 100%
Renewable Energy/Offsets (kWh)
Total Renewable Energy (kWh) 32,467,274 19,907,690 33,317,211 2.6% 67.4% 2,954,478 18 129,447,141 1,698 2%
Green Power Purchases (kWh) 32,373,434 19,518,924 32,747,692 1.2% 67.8% 1,477,239 15 129,447,141 1,698 1%
Live Solar Generation (kWh) 93,840 388,766 569,519 506.9% 46.5% 1,477,239 3 129,447,141 1,698 1%
WATER PERFORMANCE
Water (gallons)
Total Water (gallons) 3,005,498,364 1,738,607,180 3,118,475,375 3.8% 79.4% 63,107,334 949 129,447,141 1,698 49%
Water Total (control) 1,645,504,620 826,583,046 1,401,059,505 -14.9% 69.5% 40,260,432 508 85,152,805 909 47%
Water Total (non-control) 1,359,993,744 912,024,134 1,717,415,870 26.3% 88.3% 22,846,902 441 44,294,336 789 52%
* Includes 55% of actual data collected and 45% estimated data to account for the entire Welltower portfolio.
CEO LETTER COVID-19 ABOUT COMMITMENT IMPACT STAKEHOLDERS SOCIAL GOVERNANCE DISCLOSURES 52
TOTAL CONSUMPTION 2020 DATA COVERAGE
Data
% % Coverage
Change Change Data Data Total as a % of
over from Coverage Coverage Total Portfolio Total Floor
2018 2019 to Floor Area Building Portfolio Building Area
2018 2019 2020 baseline 2020 Total Count Floor Area Count (% sq ft)
WASTE PERFORMANCE
Waste (tons)
Total Waste (tons) 49,223 32,416 27,902 -43.3% -13.9% 9,567,968 140 129,447,141 1,698 7%
Waste Total (control) 33,573 30,023 26,449 -21.2% -11.9% 8,432,503 120 85,152,805 909 10%
Waste Total (non-control) 15,650 2,393 1,453 -90.7% -39.3% 1,135,465 20 44,294,336 789 3%
Total Recycling (tons) 10,610 6,146 6,144 -42.1% 0.0% 6,203,360 89 129,447,141 1,698 5%
Recycling Total (control) 7,258 6,055 5,998 -17.4% -0.9% 5,855,672 81 85,152,805 909 7%
Recycling Total (non-control) 3,352 90 146 -95.6% 62.0% 347,688 8 44,294,336 789 1%
Total Diversion Rate 17.7% 15.9% 18.0% 1.8% 13.2%
EXPLANATIONS
1. The floor area used to calculate the Scopes 1 & 2 emissions intensities and the total portfolio energy intensity is weighted for the time each property was operational
during that reporting year. For example, if an asset was purchased in March 2020, we would estimate its energy consumption for the days owned between March 2020
and 12/31/2020, not the whole year. By applying the same coefficient (days owned in year / days in year) to the floor area, we are adjusting for properties that were
acquired or disposed throughout the year.
2. The floor area used to calculate the Scope 1 and Scope 2 (location- and market-based) emissions intensities is the sum of gross floor area for buildings that are within
Welltower's control boundary, not under construction, and owned in that reporting year. This means properties within Welltower's financial control boundary and
considered stable or in lease-/fill-up for the reporting year are included.
3. The floor area used for Scope 3 emissions intensity calculations, as well as for any intensity and data coverage for "non-control" properties, is the sum of the gross floor
area for buildings that are not in Welltower's control boundary, not under construction, and owned in that reporting year. This means properties outside of Welltower's
financial control boundary and considered stable or in lease-fill-up are included.
CEO LETTER COVID-19 ABOUT COMMITMENT IMPACT STAKEHOLDERS SOCIAL GOVERNANCE DISCLOSURES 53
LR Independent Assurance Statement
LReRla tIinngd toe Wpeelltnowdeer nIntc. AGHsGs Eumriassniocnse a Sndt Sautsetaminaebinlitty Data for the
Calendar Year 2020
Relating to Welltower Inc. GHG Emissions and Sustainability Data for the
TChaisl Aessnudraancre YSteataemr e2n0t h2a0s b een prepared for Welltower Inc. in accordance with our contract.
Terms of Engagement
This Assurance Statement has been prepared for Welltower Inc. in accordance with our contract.
Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance (LR) was commissioned by Welltower Inc. (Welltower) to provide independent
assurance of its assertion/ greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions inventory and Sustainability Data (“the Report”) for
Terms of Engagement
calendar year (CY) 2020 against the assurance criteria below to a limited level of assurance and at the materiality of
Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance (LR) was commissioned by Welltower Inc. (Welltower) to provide independent
the professional judgement of the verifier using LR’s verification procedure and ISO 14064 - Part 3 for GHG data.
assurance of its assertion/ greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions inventory and Sustainability Data (“the Report”) for
calendar year (CY) 2020 against the assurance criteria below to a limited level of assurance and at the materiality of
Our assurance engagement covered Welltower’s operations and activities for their properties in United States (US),
the professional judgement of the verifier using LR’s verification procedure and ISO 14064 - Part 3 for GHG data.
Canada (CA) and the United Kingdom (UK) using the financial control reporting method and specifically the following
requirements:
Our assurance engagement covered Welltower’s operations and activities for their properties in United States (US),
• Verifying conformance with:
Canada (CA) and the United Kingdom (UK) using the financial control reporting method and specifically the following
Welltower’s reporting methodologies for the selected datasets; and
requiremoents:
World Resources Institute/World Business Council for Sustainable Development Greenhouse Gas
• Verifoying conformance with:
Protocol: A corporate accounting and reporting standard, revised edition (otherwise referred to as the
Welltower’s reporting methodologies for the selected datasets; and
o
WRI/WBCSD GHG Protocol) for the GHG data1.
World Resources Institute/World Business Council for Sustainable Development Greenhouse Gas
o
• Reviewing whether the Report has taken account of:
Protocol: A corporate accounting and reporting standard, revised edition (otherwise referred to as the
• Service sector guidelines.
WRI/WBCSD GHG Protocol) for the GHG data1.
• Evaluating the accuracy and reliability of data and information for only the selected indicators listed below:
• Reviewing whether the Report has taken account of:
Direct (Scope 1) and Energy Indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions;
•o Service sector guidelines.
Other Indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions:
• Evaluoating the accuracy and reliability of data and information for only the selected indicators listed below:
▪ Scope 3 GHG emissions were limited to: Business Travel, Employee Commuting, and Waste
Direct (Scope 1) and Energy Indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions;
o
Generated in Operations for approximately 7% of properties, based on property sq. ft.;
Other Indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions:
o
Scope 1 &2 GHG Emission Intensity;
o ▪ Scope 3 GHG emissions were limited to: Business Travel, Employee Commuting, and Waste
Energy use Intensity;
o Generated in Operations for approximately 7% of properties, based on property sq. ft.;
Water consumption for approximately 49% of properties, based on property sq. ft.;
o Scope 1 &2 GHG Emission Intensity;
o
Water Use Intensity;
o Energy use Intensity;
o
Waste generated and Recycling; and
o Water consumption for approximately 49% of properties, based on property sq. ft.;
o
Workforce Diversity and Remuneration Data.
o Water Use Intensity;
o
Waste generated and Recycling; and
o
Our assurance engagement excluded the data and information of Welltower’s direct fugitive GHG emissions from
Workforce Diversity and Remuneration Data.
o
Refrigeration and Air Conditioning equipment, on the basis of their de minimis contribution to the GHG emissions
inventory.
Our assurance engagement excluded the data and information of Welltower’s direct fugitive GHG emissions from
Refrigeration and Air Conditioning equipment, on the basis of their de minimis contribution to the GHG emissions
LR’s responsibility is only to Welltower. LR disclaims any liability or responsibility to others as explained in the end
inventory.
footnote. Welltower’s responsibility is for collecting, aggregating, analysing, and presenting all the data and
information within the Report and for maintaining effective internal controls over the systems from which the Report
LR’s responsibility is only to Welltower. LR disclaims any liability or responsibility to others as explained in the end
is derived. Ultimately, the Report has been approved by, and remains the responsibility of Welltower.
footnote. Welltower’s responsibility is for collecting, aggregating, analysing, and presenting all the data and
information within the Report and for maintaining effective internal controls over the systems from which the Report
is derived. Ultimately, the Report has been approved by, and remains the responsibility of Welltower.
1 http://www.ghgprotocol.org/
1 http://www.ghgprotocol.org/
Page 1 of 4
Page 1 of 4
LR’s Opinion
Based on LR’s approach nothing has come to our attention that would cause us to believe that Welltower has not, in
all material respects:
LR’s Opinion
• Met the requirements of the criteria listed above; and
Based on LR’s approach nothing has come to our attention that would cause us to believe that Welltower has not, in
• Disclosed accurate and reliable performance data and information as summarized in Tables 1, 2 and 3 below.
all material respects:
T• he oMpeitn tiohne erexqpureirsesmede nist sfo orfm thede ocrnit tehreia b laisstiesd o fa ab olivmei;t aendd le vel of assurance2 and at the materiality of the professional
j•u dgDemiscelnots eodf t ahcec vueraritfeie ar.n d reliable performance data and information as summarized in Tables 1, 2 and 3 below.
The opinion expressed is formed on the basis of a limited level of assurance2 and at the materiality of the professional
Table 1. Summary of Welltower’s GHG Emissions for CY 2020:
judgement of the verifier.
Tonnes
Table 1. Summary of Welltower’s GHSGco Epme iosfs iGoHnGs feomr CisYs i2o0n2s0 :
CO e
2
Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) 1T2o6n,n65e6s
Scope of GHG emissions
Energy indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2 Location-Based)1 35C2O,12e8 8
Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) 126,656
Energy indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2 Market-Based)1 342,355
Energy indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2 Location-Based)1 352,188
Scope 3 (properties outside of financial control direct and
Emnaerrkgeyt ibnadsireedc,t b GuHsiGn eesms ifslisgiohntss, (eSmcopploey 2e eM caorkmemt-Buatisnegd, )w1 aste 334728,,305651
generated)
Scope 3 (properties outside of financial control direct and
m1. a Srckoepte b2,a Msaerdk,e tb-buassiende asrse fdleigfihnetds ,i ne tmhep GloHyGe Per octoocmolm Scuotpine g2 ,G wuiadasntece document3 78,061
generated)
Table 2. Summar 1y
.
o Sf
c
W ope
e
l 2l ,t Mo aw rke er t’ -bs
a
E sen dv ai rr eo dn em fine en
d
t ina tl
h
D
e
a Gt Ha
G
f Po ror
t
C ocY
o
l2 S0 c2 op0 e:
2 Guidance document
Environmental Data
Table 2. Summary of Welltower’s Environmental Data for CY 2020:
Electricity Use (kWh) 1,850,646,772
Natural Gas Use (Therms) Environmental Data 39,617,816
Electricity Use (kWh) 1,850,646,772
Propane Use (Therms) 240,919
Natural Gas Use (Therms) 39,617,816
Water Use (gallons) 3,118,475,375
Propane Use (Therms) 240,919
Waste (US tons) 27,902
Water Use (gallons) 3,118,475,375
Recycling (US tons) 6,144
Waste (US tons) 27,902
Water Use Intensity (gallons/sq.ft.) 50
Recycling (US tons) 6,144
Electric & Natural Gas Use Intensity
24.66
W(kaWther/ sUqs.fet .I)n tensity (gallons/sq.ft.) 50
ESlceocptrei c1 && N2a GtHurGa lE Gmaiss sUiosen sIn Intetnensistiyt y
264.0.686
((kMWTCh/Os2qe.f/t .1), 000sq.ft.)
Scope 1 & 2 GHG E missions Intensity
6.08
(MTCO2e/ 1,000sq .ft.)
2 The extent of evidence-gathering for a limited assurance engagement is less than for a reasonable assurance engagement.
Limited assurance engagements focus on aggregated data rather than physically checking source data at sites. Consequently, the
level of assurance obtained in a limited assurance engagement is lower than the assurance that would have been obtained had a
2 The extent of evidence-gathering for a limited assurance engagement is less than for a reasonable assurance engagement.
reasonable assurance engagement been performed.
Limited assurance engagements focus on aggregated data rather than physically checking source data at sites. Consequently, the
level of assurance obtained in a limited assurance engagement is lower than the assurance that would have been obtained had a
reasonable assurance engagement been performed.
Page 2 of 4
Page 2 of 4
Table 3. Summary of Welltower’s Employee Demographics for CY 2020:
Human Capital1
Table 3. Summary of Welltower’s Employee Demographics for CY 2020:
Ratio
Compensation equity by level
(Male/Female)
Human Capital1
Assistant Vice President & Director / Vice President 1 R/ a0 t.9 io4
Compensation equity by level
Manager (Mal1e//0F.e8m4 ale)
A Ns os nis -t Ma an nt aV gic ee r President & Director / Vice President 1 1/ /0 0. .9 84 9
M Sea nn ia og
r
e Vr
i ce President / Executive
1 1/ /0 0.8 .84
Non-Manager Employee Ethnic Diversity 1/0.89
S He isn pio ar
n
V ici c oe
r
P Lr ae ts inid oe nt / Executive 71 ./ 00 5. %8
Employee Ethnic Diversity
Asian 4.53%
H Bli asp cka n oi rc A o fr r iL ca at nin Ao m erican 7 7. .0 35 0% %
A Os ti ha en r s 4 1. .5 23 6% %
B Wl ha ic tk e or African American 77 9. .3 80 5% %
Others Number of Employees by Age and Level 1.26%
W Agh ei t <e
3 0
79. 58 25 %
Number of Employees by Age and Level
Age 30-50 240
A Ag ge e < >3 50 0 15 22 2
AGgeen d30e-r5 B0r eakdown by Level Male 240 F emale
ANgoen >M5a0n ager 122 122 118
Manager 40 59
Gender Breakdown by Level Male Female
Assistant Vice President /Director 18 11
Non Manager 122 118
Vice President 19 10
Manager 40 59
Senior Vice President /Executive 14 3
Assistant Vice President /Director 18 11
1V.i ceT hPer Heusmidaenn Cta pital data in this table includes all employees, in all c1o9un tries, except fo1r0
Employee Ethnic Diversity which is reported only for the US.
Senior Vice President /Executive 14 3
1. The Human Capital data in this table includes all employees, in all countries, except for
LR’s Approach Employee Ethnic Diversity which is reported only for the US.
LR’s assurance engagements are carried out in accordance with our verification procedure. The following tasks were
undertaken as part of the evidence gathering process for this assurance engagement:
LR’s Approach
• interviewing relevant employees of the organization responsible for managing GHG emissions and
LR’s assurance engagements are carried out in accordance with our verification procedure. The following tasks were
Sustainability data and records;
undertaken as part of the evidence gathering process for this assurance engagement:
• assessing Welltower’s data management systems to confirm they are designed to prevent significant errors,
• interviewing relevant employees of the organization responsible for managing GHG emissions and
omissions, or mis-statements in the Report. We did this by reviewing the effectiveness of data handling
Sustainability data and records;
procedures, instructions, and systems, including those for internal quality control; and
• assessing Welltower’s data management systems to confirm they are designed to prevent significant errors,
• verifying historical GHG emissions and Sustainability data and records at an aggregated level for CY 2020.
omissions, or mis-statements in the Report. We did this by reviewing the effectiveness of data handling
procedures, instructions, and systems, including those for internal quality control; and
•O bs ve er rv ifa yt inio gn hs
is torical GHG emissions and Sustainability data and records at an aggregated level for CY 2020.
Further observations and findings, made during the assurance engagement, are:
• Welltower should consider including the estimated fugitive GHG emissions from refrigerated equipment;
Observations
• Welltower should ensure that all outpatient medical buildings within Welltower’s control boundary enter their
Further observations and findings, made during the assurance engagement, are:
data into Portfolio Manager.
• Welltower should consider including the estimated fugitive GHG emissions from refrigerated equipment;
• Welltower should ensure that all outpatient medical buildings within Welltower’s control boundary enter their
data into Portfolio Manager.
Page 3 of 4
Page 3 of 4
LR’s Standards, Competence and Independence
LR implements and maintains a comprehensive management system that meets accreditation requirements for ISO
14065 Greenhouse gases – Requirements for greenhouse gas validation and verification bodies for use in accreditation
LR’s Standards, Competence and Independence
or other forms of recognition and ISO/IEC 17021 Conformity assessment – Requirements for bodies providing audit and
LR implements and maintains a comprehensive management system that meets accreditation requirements for ISO
certification of management systems that are at least as demanding as the requirements of the International Standard
14065 Greenhouse gases – Requirements for greenhouse gas validation and verification bodies for use in accreditation
on Quality Control 1 and comply with the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by the International Ethics
or other forms of recognition and ISO/IEC 17021 Conformity assessment – Requirements for bodies providing audit and
Standards Board for Accountants.
certification of management systems that are at least as demanding as the requirements of the International Standard
on Quality Control 1 and comply with the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by the International Ethics
LR ensures the selection of appropriately qualified individuals based on their qualifications, training, and experience.
Standards Board for Accountants.
The outcome of all verification and certification assessments is then internally reviewed by senior management to
ensure that the approach applied is rigorous and transparent.
LR ensures the selection of appropriately qualified individuals based on their qualifications, training, and experience.
The outcome of all verification and certification assessments is then internally reviewed by senior management to
ensure that the approach applied is rigorous and transparent.
Signed Dated: 16 June 2021
Signed Dated: 16 June 2021
Neville Dias
LR Lead Verifier
On behalf of Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance, Inc.,
Neville Dias
1330 Enclave Parkway, Suite 200, Houston, TX 77077
LR Lead Verifier
On behalf of Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance, Inc.,
UQA00000909
1330 Enclave Parkway, Suite 200, Houston, TX 77077
Lloyd's Register Group Limited, its affiliates and subsidiaries, including Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance, Inc., and their respective officers,
UQA00000909
employees or agents are, individually and collectively, referred to in this clause as 'Lloyd's Register'. Lloyd's Register assumes no responsibility
and shall not be liable to any person for any loss, damage or expense caused by reliance on the information or advice in this document or
Lloyd's Register Group Limited, its affiliates and subsidiaries, including Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance, Inc., and their respective officers,
howsoever provided, unless that person has signed a contract with the relevant Lloyd's Register entity for the provision of this information or
employees or agents are, individually and collectively, referred to in this clause as 'Lloyd's Register'. Lloyd's Register assumes no responsibility
advice and in that case any responsibility or liability is exclusively on the terms and conditions set out in that contract.
and shall not be liable to any person for any loss, damage or expense caused by reliance on the information or advice in this document or
howsoever provided, unless that person has signed a contract with the relevant Lloyd's Register entity for the provision of this information or
The English version of this Assurance Statement is the only valid version. Lloyd’s Register Group Limited assumes no responsibility for versions
atrdavnisclea taendd i innt oth oatth cears lea nagnuya rgeesps.o nsibility or liability is exclusively on the terms and conditions set out in that contract.
TThheis EAnsgsulirsahn vceer sSitoante omf ethnits i sA sosnulrya vnacleid S wtahteenm peunbt liiss hthede wonitlhy tvhaeli dR evpeorsrito tno. wLlhoiycdh’ ist Rreefgeirsst.e Irt Gmraoyu po nLliym biete rde parsosduumceesd n ino irtess epnotnirseitbyi.l ity for versions
t ranslated into other languages.
Copyright © Lloyd's Register Quality Assurance Limited, 2021. A member of the Lloyd’s Register Group.
T his Assurance Statement is only valid when published with the Report to which it refers. It may only be reproduced in its entirety.
Copyright © Lloyd's Register Quality Assurance Limited, 2021. A member of the Lloyd’s Register Group.
Page 4 of 4
Page 4 of 4
4500 Dorr Street
Toledo, Ohio 43615
For more information, contact:
sustainability@welltower.com
