SUSTAINED COMMITMENT
SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2021
INTRODUCTION
Innovation and adaptability have always been priorities at Western Digital. We began as a manufacturer of transistor
test equipment 50 years ago and have transformed to become a global leader in storage technology, offering the
world’s broadest portfolio of data storage solutions. Adaptation has been a consistent hallmark of our success.
As we move past a year that will undoubtedly be infamous for its challenges, we are encouraged by the worldwide
adaptation to those struggles—prompting changes that we hope will have lasting positive impacts. We remain
committed to supporting the communities, environment and economies on which we all depend and doing our part
to make sure the future is brighter for everyone.
REPORTING AND MATERIALITY IN FISCAL YEAR 2020, WE ACHIEVED
THE FOLLOWING MILESTONES:
As a reflection of the increasing importance of sustainability to our business,
we are adapting our annual sustainability reporting to align with our financial
reporting. In conjunction with this change, we are publishing an ESG Data
Download with new sustainability data covering the second half of our fiscal
3.8%
year 2020, supplementing the data covering the first fiscal half disclosed in
our sustainability report published in August. The ESG Data Download also
includes recent fiscal year-based data that we previously reported for the
equivalent calendar years. Going forward, we expect to publish our reports
and the underlying data after the close of our fiscal year.
Year-over-year reduction in energy usage
In this supplemental sustainability report, we share updates from fiscal year
2020 on a few sustainability topics that are particularly significant to our
company, as determined in our most recent materiality assessment. We 25%
continue to manage sustainability issues across the spectrum of materiality
and look forward to providing a broader update in our next full report.
ENERGY AND EMISSIONS
Year-over-year reduction in energy intensity
We are doing more each year to reduce our climate impacts and
improve our climate resiliency. Even as our product shipments have
grown, a focus on data and efficiency has helped us achieve notable
5.2%
reductions in energy usage and emissions. This focus will only increase, CO e
as we are currently working to set long-term emissions reduction targets
and implement TCFD recommendations. 2
Year-over-year reduction in Scope 1 emissions
6.3%
CO e
2
Year-over-year reduction in Scope 2 emissions
2
WASTE AND EFFICIENCY
Western Digital is always looking for opportunities
to streamline our operations and reduce waste.
We piloted a new product take-back program on
Earth Day 2020 called Easy Recycle, which offers
incentives for consumers to return their products
for secure data destruction and recycling of the
materials. In its short tenure so far, that program
has led to the recycling of 8,300 drives and the
avoidance of over four metric tons of waste.
We continued our focus on circularity in fiscal year
2020 by completing our first set of ISO-conformant
product lifecycle assessments. We are currently
running additional assessments on other families of
products and are using that data to further reduce
the impacts of our production.
Water plays an important role in our manufacturing
PEOPLE
processes, and we made improvements in fiscal
year 2020 to significantly reduce our water use. At
our Shanghai facility, we implemented several new Human rights and labor practices were high priorities are evaluating potential human rights impacts of our
reclamation projects to achieve a reclamation ratio for us during fiscal year 2020. We published our first business and preparing to use that data to make
of 95%, the highest in the region. Similar global human rights policy in May, which explains our further progress in our management of human rights.
reclamation efforts in our Shenzhen facility earned expectations for protecting human rights within our
recognition from the local government and have own operations as well as our supply chain. The high Broad-based diversity and inclusion are important
resulted in conservation of 64 million gallons of standards set in that policy are based on aspects of our business strategy, and we are proud
water annually. international standards, the industry norms adopted that as we entered fiscal year 2021, half of the
by the Responsible Business Alliance and a careful members of our Board of Directors were women. We
analysis of our business. joined the Business Coalition for the Equality Act in
We launched a new Easy 2020, reiterating our commitment to an inclusive
To continue our focus on human rights, we recently world. Western Digital was also fortunate to receive
Recycle product take-back
launched a human rights impact assessment, the Dov Lautmann award for diversity and inclusion
program on Earth Day 2020. consistent with the UN Guiding Principles on and, for the seventh year in a row, to achieve the top
Business and Human Rights. In collaboration with an Platinum Plus rating for corporate social
To date, 8,300 drives have been independent firm with human rights expertise, we responsibility from the nonprofit group Maala.
recycled and 4+ metric tons of
waste have been avoided.
3
OTHER UPDATES
We are pleased to share a few additional highlights from
our fiscal year 2020:
▪ Western Digital was named one of the 2020 World’s
Most Ethical Companies by Ethisphere, our second
year in a row achieving that distinction.
▪ In response to the COVID-19 outbreak, we quickly
adopted enhanced health protection measures at our
factories to protect our workers and allow essential
work to continue. We also mobilized our operational
expertise to procure and distribute approximately
250,000 pieces of personal protective equipment to
frontline workers in our communities around the world.
▪ We organized more than $2.7M in employee and
corporate donations to nonprofit organizations to
ease the burdens the pandemic placed on access to
basic resources and services.
▪ Or manufacturing facility in Shanghai, China received
a Factory of Choice award from the Responsible
Business Alliance, a reflection of our commitment to
embrace or exceed industry standards for integrity ©2021 Western Digital Technologies, Inc. All rights reserved.
and sustainability throughout the world. Western Digital®, architecting how data enables the world to solve its biggest challenges. New
devices, new systems, new solutions, all optimized and tuned to create the right conditions for data
to realize its full potential. As a leader in data infrastructure, we accept the responsibility to
empower people and systems that depend on data. Western Digital’s data-centric solutions are
comprised of the Western Digital, G-Technology™, SanDisk®, and WD® brands.
As we see it, sustainability is imperative, both for the world
www.westerndigital.com
and for Western Digital. We intend to remain a leader in
data storage for decades to come, and that will only
This Sustainability Update 2021 contains forward-looking statements, which are based on our
happen if we protect and support people and our planet. current expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to
That type of sustained prosperity will certainly require differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements. Risks and uncertainties
that could cause actual results to differ include: the COVID-19 pandemic; the regulatory
repeated adaptation, but we are up to the challenge.
environment; supply chain disruptions; business conditions; litigation and other legal proceedings;
and other risks and uncertainties set forth in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission, to which your attention is directed. You should not place undue reliance on these
forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof, and we undertake no obligation
to update these forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
Additionally, this update contains metrics that have not been prepared in accordance with U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) and have not been audited. These metrics are
not an alternative for metrics prepared in accordance with GAAP and may be different from non-
GAAP metrics used by other companies.
4
