Fiscal Year 2023
Sustainability Report
A Letter From Our CEO 3 Supply Chain 41
Human Rights and Labor Practices 41
Our 2023 Story 4
Critical Minerals and Metals 43
Who We Are 5
Supply Chain Resiliency 50
Our ESG Approach 6
Workforce, Workplace
FY2023 Highlights 7
and Community 51
Minimizing Our Environmental Impact 8
Inclusion 51
Strengthening Our Supply Chain
and Driving Product Innovation 12 Employee Attraction, Retention
and Engagement 54
Our People 17
Health and Safety 57
Giving to Our World 21
Doing Business with Integrity 25
Global Giving and Doing 61
General Disclosures 27 STEM Education 61
About This Report
Hunger Relief 62
Our Business 28
Environment 62 GRI 2-3
Our Company 28
Equality 63
We are proud to share Western Digital’s 2023 Sustainability Report covering Fiscal Year 2023
A Portfolio of Consumer
(FY2023), which has been prepared with reference to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)
and Business Brands 28 Integrity 64
Standards: Core option. The report also references the Sustainability Accounting Standards
Our Operations and Workforce 28
Our Culture of Ethics 64
Board (SASB) Hardware Standard and the SASB Semiconductors Standard. Furthermore, we
Anti-Corruption 65 have aligned our disclosures with the UN Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs) and the
Our Strategy 29
Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). Please reference this report’s
Data Privacy and Security 66
Building a More Sustainable Future indices for additional information.
— One Data Point at a Time 29
ESG Data 68
This report is organized into three parts:
Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement 29
Indices 77
Sustainable Development Goals 30
• Our 2023 Story offers significant highlights from FY2023
Governance 31 GRI Index 77
• General disclosure section provides a deeper, more technical look at our approach to
SASB Hardware Standard Index 82
sustainability and our progress
Environment 32
SASB Semiconductors Standard Index 83
• Indices provide a comprehensive view of the data that informs our sustainability efforts
Energy and Emissions 32
TCFD Index 84
Product Life Cycle Impacts 38
UN SDG Index 85 We are always looking for opportunities to improve our transparency and better demonstrate
Chemicals and Hazardous Substances 40 our performance. If you have any feedback about this report or other disclosures, please
contact us at sustainability@wdc.com.
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 2
A Letter From Our CEO
Dear Stakeholders,
Over the past year, we have continued our In June 2023, we announced a new set of parts of our supply chain. From uncovering
journey towards sustainable excellence, building ambitious sustainability goals that serve as a opportunities for greater supply chain efficiency
upon the strong foundation we established in testament to our determination to drive positive to understanding the impacts of waste and water
previous years. Our efforts around environmental, change in the world. These goals reflect our usage, we have taken great strides in integrating
social, and responsible business have always recognition of the pressing global challenges strategic, environmentally driven choices in our
been an integral part of our corporate DNA. we face and our commitment to playing a vital product development. In doing so, we continue
These focus areas have guided us to make role in addressing them. Most notably, we have to refine our production processes while being
meaningful decisions that benefit our business set a target to achieve carbon neutrality across able to increase more positive social and
and have a positive impact on the environment, our global operations. This means reducing societal impacts outside our walls.
society, and our stakeholders. our carbon emissions, investing in renewable
energy sources, and offsetting any remaining Looking Ahead
The past year had some unique challenges. emissions to ensure a net-zero impact on the
These priorities are not just guideposts but our
Throughout it all, our teams around the world environment. More details about the new goals
roadmap to a more sustainable and responsible
We continued to lead
showed incredible strength, resilience, and and initiatives that will drive our progress are
future. We recognize that achieving them
innovation. It led us to collaborate in impactful ways detailed in this report.
will require unwavering dedication, innovation, with genuine care for one
and think critically and more strategically than
and collaboration with our stakeholders. At
another, pride in creating
ever. We continued to lead with genuine care for Investing in Our People
Western Digital, we firmly believe that businesses
one another, pride in creating innovative products
We are intensifying our efforts to create a diverse have a vital role in addressing global challenges, innovative products for
for our customers, and an unwavering commitment
and inclusive workplace where every voice is and sustainability is not just a choice but an
our customers, and an
to support the communities in which we operate.
heard, valued, and empowered. Our priorities imperative. Together, we are shaping a brighter,
include a continued focus on fair compensation, more sustainable future for our planet and unwavering commitment
We continue to distinguish ourselves through
improved feedback channels, empowering our generations to come.
to support the communities
both transparency and substantive progress:
employee resource groups, and driving greater
inclusion by fighting bias. Thank you for your interest in Western Digital in which we operate.”
Protecting the Environment
and our FY2023 Sustainability Report.
Through thoughtful planning and execution, Evolving Our Operations
David Goeckeler
we have already set and achieved goals such
Over the past year, our global operations CEO, Western Digital
as running certain facilities on renewable energy
team has fostered a new organization to help
and reducing energy consumption per unit
drive sustainability improvements across key David Goeckeler, CEO
produced. But we continuously strive to do more.
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 3
Our 2023 Story
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 4
Who We Are
Silicon-to-System Innovation
and Engineering
GRI 2-6
Our Vision Our Mission
To create breakthrough innovation To unlock the
— inspired by the convergence
potential of data
of human potential and digital
by harnessing the Advanced Media, Controller, Device Innovation
transformation — that enables the
Head, Firmware/FTL
Mechanical, packaging, testing,
world to actualize its aspirations. power to use it.
software, firmware, and controllers
Our Purpose Our Values
To be the world’s iconic data We think big.
storage company
We create possibility.
We make it happen.
Platforms Innovation Integrated Storage
Platforms
Electrical and mechanical design,
We do it together.
firmware, and diagnostics
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 5
Our ESG Approach
Forces Shaping Our Approach
We operate in an increasingly complex, interconnected world. For a global business like
At Western Digital our approach to ESG enables us to create shared Western Digital, trends and forces deeply impact the way we approach sustainability and
environmental, social, and governance (ESG) considerations.
value for our business and the world around us. Across our global
operations, our focus on sustainability helps us create a brighter future
Supply Chain Anti-Corruption / Ethics
for our business, our customers, and our employees.
Achieving resilience across our supply With increased investor, employee, and
chains calls for visibility, agility, collaboration, customer focus on responsible conduct,
As a company facing ongoing environmental and social challenges, we believe rooting our decisions
and alignment across our operations. As corruption-free business is seen as a given
and operations in sustainable business practices can:
supply chain disruptions continue to be a — a shared value. Taking measures to reduce
major challenge for businesses across the corruption helps bring certainty to business
global economy, we continue to bring a outcomes, reduce possibility of regulatory and
Lead to more efficient and resilient Increase our investor pool with
big-picture perspective to our entire legal actions, drive down litigation risk, and
business operations demonstrable ESG performance
extended supply chain. generate profitability in a sustainable fashion.
Help us meet our customers’ Enhance the reliability of our Upskilling the Workforce Climate Change
expectations and efficiency targets supply chain
At Western Digital, people are our biggest From increasing global temperatures to
asset. Employees are increasingly looking extreme weather events to biodiversity
for greater purpose and flexibility in their loss, climate change has implications on
Reduce risks of misconduct Improve the health, well-being,
jobs. By continuing to keep a pulse on food security, ecosystems, and human well-
and legal liability engagement, and productivity
the personal and professional needs of being. Climate-related risks are key factors
of our employees
our team members, we can offer a work we constantly assess across the diverse
environment that attracts the best talent regions and supply chains we operate in.
and demonstrates our commitment to Our ambitious climate targets guide us to
In June 2023, Western Digital announced ambitious new corporate sustainability targets to build the well-being of our employees. reduce our impacts and we will continue
upon the science-based targets we set in 2021 and help guide sustainably driven operations that will to disclose our progress.
make tangible environmental impact throughout our organization. The new targets include powering
Automation
our operations with 100% renewable energy, achieving net zero Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions
Evolving Regulations
across our operations, as well as water and waste reduction targets. These goals exemplify our Industries around the globe are
dedication to reducing the impact of our business operations on the environment and communities experiencing rapid change due to The landscape of ESG reporting involves
around the world. automation technologies. This can lead increased regulatory focus, greater investor
to increased efficiency and reduced levels scrutiny, and a recognition of the broader
Read more about our goals here. of waste, new streams of innovation, impact of businesses on the environment
potential cost savings, and new and society. Adhering to corporate practices
opportunities for career growth. We also and reporting to reputable regulatory
continue to monitor risks such as quality frameworks allows Western Digital to hold
control and privacy, while keeping up ourselves accountable and meet ongoing
with evolving regulations. stakeholder expectations.
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 6
FY2023 Highlights
Global Giving
Powered by the passion of our employee volunteers, FY23 was a record-breaking year in expanding our
community involvement. We are proud of our global giving and doing achievements including:
23.8 241
Environment • Achieving a percentage point • Hosting company-sponsored
increase of employee participation in volunteer events
company-sponsored volunteerism
Western Digital’s four new corporate sustainability targets underscore our commitment
from FY22
to being good environmental stewards and put forth data-driven goals and metrics to • Welcoming employee participation from
hold our organization accountable for mitigating the impacts of climate change. 18,629 59
• Engaging unique volunteers sites across the globe
Our commitments include:
100%
• Running our global operations on renewable energy by 2030
net zero emissions
• Achieving in our operations
(Scope 1 and 2 emissions) by 2032
Product Innovation Talent Development
20%
• Reducing water withdrawals by by 2030, versus 2022
95%+
2,000
• Diverting of our operational waste from landfills by 2030 Western Digital’s Recycling Initiative seeks to In FY2023, nearly employees
understand how recycled content is used in the
across various levels completed upskilling
company’s products and packaging. Several
programs and were able to move through
internal teams were involved in this initiative to
our workforce growing path from Operator
survey, understand, and help improve the results
to Engineer in Malaysia and Thailand.
of our product Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) and
This was made possible through strategic
Workforce recycled content in our product components.
workforce growth paths, our training
center of excellence, and initiatives such
Analyzing hundreds of HDD drive components,
as simulation labs, autonomous robotic
As of June 30, 2023:
the team:
training, and automation machine training.
26% 23%
• Women represented of our management positions and • Focused on major weighted components
Read more about the details and results
of our technical staff containing aluminum, steel and rare
of our upskilling initiatives in Our People.
earth metals
62%
• of our U.S. management positions were represented by members of • Completed third-party verification confirming
Asian, Black/African American, Hispanic/Latino or other racially or ethnically
40-41%
diverse communities, a 1.4 percentage point increase compared to 2022 recycled content by weight in
recent HDD products
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 7
Minimizing Our
Environmental
Impact
We’re committed to protecting and preserving our planet. This
commitment means we must mitigate risks posed by climate change,
resource scarcity, and environmental degradation and do our part
to reduce impacts. Through thoughtful planning and meticulous
execution, our customers, our communities, and our team members
can collectively make an impact through sustainably created products.
IN THIS SECTION:
New Corporate Sustainability Targets 9
Key Collaboration 10
Committed to Driving Progress 11
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 8
New Corporate
Western Digital’s Sustainability Targets
Sustainability
ENERGY AND EMISSIONS
Targets Goal Actions Performance
Emissions Scope Net Zero In addition to transitioning to RE, we are innovating to reduce
Scope 1 emissions and reduce energy consumption.
1 & 2 We are ahead in our combined Scope 1 and 2
Western Digital strives to be a sustainability MFG sites by 2032 emission goals with regards to our SBT trajectory
leader. The new sustainability commitments in FY2023. Many facilities-related projects and
we announced in June 2023 were created to 42% ↓ We are actively looking to reduce Scope 1 emissions through out-of-the box initiatives involving technology and
have a major impact on our operations, product reduced usage of high global warming potential (GWP) strategy are driving this progress. In FY2023, we
development, and supply chain management, MFG sites by 2030 chemicals in our manufacturing processes. We are working to achieved a 20.7% reduction in our combined Scope 1
secure long-term renewable energy power purchase agreements and 2 emissions, versus our FY2020 baseline.
as well as on our global environmental footprint.
(PPAs) and other renewable energy purchases to reduce our
Scope 2 emissions.
Emissions Scope 3 50% ↓ We are reducing our emissions from use of sold products Since FY2020, we have realized a reduction in
through a combination of increased storage capacity per drive emissions intensity in our Scope 3, Category 11
Category 11: Use of
and innovations in the power consumption and efficiency of Use of Sold Products by 35%, on an emissions
Sold Products Use phase emissions
our drives. per petabyte basis.
intensity by 2030
Renewable Energy 100% We focus on long-term power purchase agreements As of 2023, three of our sites were running on
for renewable energy. 100% renewable energy. Several more sites are
on path to achieve 100% RE in the next few years.
MFG sites by 2030
Company-wide, we have achieved 31% renewable
electricity consumption. Western Digital continues
to make steady progress in renewable electricity
procurement, balancing availability and cost in
our regional strategy.
WATER
Water Withdrawn 20% ↓ In FY2023, we implemented several water conservation projects Due to a combination of successful water
successfully. In the coming years, we plan to implement capital conservation projects and factory shutdowns due
expenditure-focused water recycling programs, and to seek to reduced production in FY2023, we achieved an
by 2030
Alliance for Water Stewardship certification for our factories. 18% reduction in water withdrawals, versus FY2022.
WASTE
Waste to Landfill <5% We have developed a roadmap to achieve our <5% waste to In FY2023, we sent approximately 19% of our
landfill target by 2030. We are planning to implement structural operational waste to landfill.
from Operations
waste reassessment and segregation programs. Beginning in
by 2030
FY2024, we plan to investigate and implement technologies such
as pyrolysis, redirection of metal hydroxide waste to cement
production, and other methods to increase our waste diversion.
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 9
Key Collaboration
CASE STUDY
World Class
Achieving our ambitious goals requires a With this insight, they can strategize functional Building Management
collaborative, consistent effort from teams projects for processes such as reducing our
across our organization. From our workforce manufacturing quality checkpoint test times System Initiative
to external partnerships and third-party to minimize emissions as our production
assessments, Western Digital is bringing volume grows.
Across our operations, Western Digital’s sites are
together diverse perspectives that will help us
ranked as Tier Two for overall Building Management
effectively drive towards our energy, emissions,
Corporate Real Estate
System (BMS) capability. During a collaborative
waste, and water goals. By bringing together
operations project in FY23, a team of cross-functional
and Workplace (CREW)
internal and external stakeholders with essential
experts began exploring how to elevate the company’s
expertise, we can better integrate and elevate the
BMSs to Tier 3. Moving to Tier 3 status would ensure
This centralized organization manages facility
processes, technologies, and innovations that
ready availability of data critical to sustainability
operations globally and enables collaborative
provide sustainable products to the world.
(Descriptive), while also enabling real-time analytics of
work across locations, such as benchmarking
deviations from setpoints (Diagnostic), and proactive
and real-time lessons and learnings from our
Sustainability Champions
analytics-driven options for optimization (Prescriptive).
site locations worldwide.
Western Digital’s newly revamped Conservation
The team designed a four-tiered maturity model of
Sustainability Council
Program is now more holistic, engaging cross-
Western Digital’s Building Management Systems,
functional Sustainability Champions from
reviewed existing manufacturing facility operations,
Senior leaders from Manufacturing, Facilities,
across manufacturing teams — especially team
and evaluated the gaps that need to be closed to get
Engineering, and other business units come
members from process engineering and test
to advanced maturity of real-time energy and water
together for ongoing education and updates
engineering. Bringing together all corners of our
resource optimization.
around how new sustainable processes
workforce in this way is essential to our ability
and products are performing. This new level
to achieve our goals.
Using the data from this model, we began the
of collaboration is expected to accelerate
development of a capital investment plan for selected
Western Digital’s environmental goals as well
Our Conservation Program management
locations and systems to move Tier 2 BMS level to
as science-based emissions reduction goals.
office integrates various sites via meetings
Tier 3.
held on a regular basis. During these sessions,
clear responsibilities are established for each Strategic Data Management
In parallel, as near-term actions, the team identified
department and its designated Sustainability
quick-win solutions, consisting mainly of Variable
Champion. Each Sustainability Champion is then Energy consumption data and emission data
Speed Drive (VSD) installations for chilled water pumps
responsible for achieving goals. are managed on a common, global application,
and zero purge dryers. While this does not move the
and the reduction program team has visibility not
ratings of BMS maturity, it provides a beneficial energy
For example, when cross-functional teams only into their own facility’s data but other sites’
consumption and utility cost reduction until larger
collaborate, they gain deeper knowledge about as well. The shared data promotes benchmarking
BMS changes can be made. Savings are anticipated
our SBTi goals and forecasted trajectories. with other sites and helps identification of
to commence in FY2024.
further reduction opportunities.
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 10
Committed to Driving Progress
Artificial Intelligence Drives
Energy Reduction
Energy Resource Management
From cross-company collaboration to product
The site team in Prachinburi, Thailand, partnered with a third-party engineering firm to innovation, we see our work around sustainability
In FY2023, our Energy Resource Management
implement chiller plant automation, artificial intelligence, machine learning, and data analytics and conservation as essential to driving progress.
program was more deeply integrated into our
into their system. As the chiller is one of the most energy-consuming pieces of equipment, In FY2023, energy conservation activities from
corporate sustainability program. Aligned with
this activity enables Western Digital to achieve significant energy reductions and promote a facilities standpoint were combined with
our mid-term GHG, water, and waste targets,
the culture of intelligent resource management. consumption reduction efforts from a factory,
we reorganized internal program operations
equipment, and test engineering standpoint.
to mobilize our facility engineering, process
Granular tracking of efficiency projects has
engineering, and industrial engineering teams,
created multi-year visibility, aiding our path to
along with other key manufacturing stakeholders
reach our 2030 and 2032 goals. Next to that,
to update processes and operations to achieve
Western Digital has prioritized climate-related
our targets.
impact to our operations through two avenues:
first, by way of a comprehensive Vulnerability
Assessment including mitigation actions; second, Efficiency Improvements
by installing a corporate-wide Business Continuity
Program that continues to take shape in 2024. Our facility engineering team, the key
contributor to the success of Western Digital’s
resource management program, continues to
Vulnerability
provide significant contributions to the new
Assessment Program
sustainability program through identification and
implementation of energy efficiency improvement
In addition to reduction efforts, Western Digital projects. During FY2023, our facility engineering
started a Vulnerability Assessment program team implemented more than 100 energy-saving
in FY22 to cope with climate-change-related projects around the globe with more than
risks. In FY2023, through our partnership with 83,500 MWh annual savings, equivalent to
Jacobs Solutions, Western Digital evaluated a nearly 9,000 homes’ electricity use for one year1.
variety of risks and their potential impact on
our operations. The program team reviewed
existing mitigation measures and started the
development of an action plan for FY2024 to
make our operations more resilient to climate
change. Western Digital also developed a
geospatial tool (online dashboard) to provide
the assessment results across facility operations,
enabling immediate access to the data and
timely updates as the parameters change.
1 C omparison generated from United States Environmental Protection
Agency Greenhouse Gas Equivalencies Calculator
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 11
Strengthening
Our Supply Chain
and Driving
Product Innovation
At Western Digital, we are dedicated to innovating the most advanced data
infrastructure products on earth while integrating ethical and environmentally
sustainable practices into our supply chain. With a robust network of over
40,000 factory employees and hundreds of global production parts suppliers
and contract manufacturers, our commitment to sustainability and transparency
drives us to set new industry standards in both product development
and responsible manufacturing.
IN THIS SECTION:
Our Performance 13
Recycled Material Content Initiatives 16
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 12
Our Performance
By the Numbers: Engagement, Assessments, and Training
Engagement
Supplier Code Of Conduct Communication Response Rate CDP Response Rate
100% 100% 96% 95%
of Direct Suppliers of Indirect Onsite Service Suppliers response rate from 170+ in-scope response rate from 160+ in-scope
suppliers for Climate Change suppliers for Water Security
Assessments
Completion of Self-Assessment
Questionnaires Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) Validated Assessment Program Audit Results
84% 20% 6% 26%
supplier facilities of first tier and sub-tiers audited of first tier and sub-tiers audited of first tier and sub-tiers audited
received a Platinum Score received a Gold Score received a Silver Score
Training
RBA Validated Assessment Program and Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI) e-Learning
30 201 100%
suppliers courses completed course completion rate
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 13
By the Numbers:
Supplier Engagement Supplier Diversity
Supply Chain Transparency
In FY2023, we prioritized engagement efforts We value diversity in our supply chain because
with our top 80% emissions direct material by bringing together varying backgrounds
suppliers, to help create a deeper understanding and expertise, we can generate new ideas and
of our Scope 3 PG&S emissions reduction goal. better processes, and foster more inclusive
During these one-on-one sessions with critical working conditions that create a responsible
8,800+ 10,600+
suppliers, we shared WD’s Sustainability journey and resilient supply chain. We track supplier
so far, in terms of Scope 1 and 2 emissions diversity among several categories. In FY2023,
reductions, as well as primary data methodology 9% of our active direct and indirect materials
total active suppliers sites/facilities for product carbon footprint calculation. The suppliers were owned by underrepresented
ultimate goal is to improve Scope 3 emissions groups or otherwise considered diverse by
data accuracy and expedite overall supply chain their local business organizations' standards.
emissions reduction.
60+
regions
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 14
Supplier Diversity
We value diversity in our supply chain, and we track supplier diversity among several categories.
Category in Supplier Diversity Supplier Count
In FY2023, 9% of our active direct and indirect materials suppliers were owned by underrepresented
groups or otherwise considered diverse by their local business organizations' standards.
MSME – Ministry of Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises 263
SBE – Small Business Enterprise 253
MBE
Minority Business MBE TH SME – Thailand Small and Medium Business Enterprise 186
VOB Enterprise – Black Minority Business
Veteran Owned Business Enterprise – Hispanic
12 | 1.45% WOB – Women-Owned Business 27
133 | 1.57% 11 | 1.33%
JSMS
MBE – Minority Business Enterprise – Asian 25
Japan Small-Mid Size
MBE
Company
Minority Business
VOB – Veteran-owned Business 13
Enterprise – Asian 10 | 1.21%
All Other
25 | 3.02% Diverse Suppliers
MBE – Minority Business Enterprise – Black 12
WOB 29 | 3.48%
Women-Owned Business
MBE – Minority Business Enterprise – Hispanic 11
27 | 3.26%
MSME JSMS – Japan Small-Mid Size Company 10
Ministry of Micro,
Small & Medium Enterprises
SBA – Small Business Administration 7
263 | 31.72%
SDB – Small Disadvantaged Business 6
DVBE – Disabled Veteran Business Enterprise 5
GLBT – Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, Transgender 4
Disabled-Veteran-owned 3
PWD – People With Disabilities 3
TH SME
Thailand Small and Medium
Business Enterprise MBE – Minority Business Enterprise – Native American 1
186 | 22.44%
Grand Total 829
SBE
Small Business Enterprise
253 | 30.52%
Learn more about our approach to Supply Chain.
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 15
Recycled Material
Content Initiatives
2023 has seen a clear recognition of the Our baselining process for these products
value-driven opportunities anchored around included the weight of various bills of materials
moving from a linear economic consumption and the percentage of recycled content
model to a circular one. Western Digital within them. In partnership with suppliers
recognizes that the transition is a long journey and technology teams, increases in recycled
that requires active collaboration across teams content paths were established. A long-term
within our company and across upstream and roadmap that advances the percent recycled
downstream partners externally. content of various constituents of the product
is now in place.
With a focus on both financial and sustainability
value generation across our value chain, the
Closed Loop
following key initiatives have shown substantive
Recycling Assessment
progress in 2023:
• Reduction in virgin materials within We worked on a closed loop recycling
Products and Packaging assessment for reusable and recyclable
materials from Western Digital factories
• Evaluation and qualification of high-yield
and end-of-life products with key suppliers.
elemental and rare earth recovery partners
In FY2023, we also completed and received
• Collaboration with critical direct raw our first ever third-party verification of
materials suppliers recycled content for two of our capacity
enterprise HDD product lines. We are
reviewing the results of these assessments
and are working to pilot and implement
best practices into our operations.
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 16
Our People
As a global company, our people are at the heart of everything
we do and we believe that we are at our best when we stand
together to support our vision of creating breakthrough innovation
that enables the world to actualize its aspirations, we provide safe
and fair working conditions where our diverse team of engineers,
inventors, and makers can build a fulfilling career.
IN THIS SECTION:
Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion 18
Upskilling Our Workforce 19
Supporting Our People 20
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 17
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
2023
Women’s Choice Award
Our people are Western Digital’s most valuable Employee Resource Groups for Best Companies for
resource. We believe we can achieve the
best business outcomes by empowering our Our Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) help Women, Best Companies
diverse and talented employees to make an create an inclusive culture that embraces
impact together. the uniqueness of our employees. We have for Millennials and Best
several ERG communities, focusing on women,
In FY2023 we: LGBTQ+, racial and ethnic minorities, military, Companies for Diversity
and people with disabilities. In FY2023, we
Disclosed gender pay equity results introduced We.Represent for Black, Asian and
In 2023, the Women’s Choice Award once
and Employment Information Report other minority colleagues in EMEA to foster
again recognized Western Digital among the
(EEO-1) data community and awareness of ethnic diversity
Best Companies for Women, Best Companies
throughout the company.
for Millennials and, Best Companies for Diversity.
Women’s Choice Award recognizes companies
Earned Best Company for Millennials
based on a gathering of external data from the
for the fourth consecutive year by
general population, analyzing over 300,000
Women’s Choice Award
sources of data — including Fortune 300
Companies, Survey Monkey, Working Mothers
Best Place to Work reports, Glassdoor, annual
reports, and press releases.
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 18
Upskilling Our Workforce
Ecosystem of Training and Upskilling
Through strategic programs and our augmented Our commitment to upskilling has always
workforce framework, we offer training and been engrained in our company. In 2020, we
initiatives that provide opportunities for people implemented automation of repetitive or manual
and technology to blend and work together. hardware and software tasks by our operations
We believe this will help us drive a responsible, team members, and trained them to use these
sustainable, and inclusive transformation advanced systems. Beginning in FY2023, we
and growth for people while empowering are focused on augmentation to automate
GOVERNMENT AGENCIES
them to augment their cognitive and physical scenario-based repetitive or manual tasks that COLLABORATION
capabilities as they learn to work hand-in-hand our technicians, engineers, buyers, planners, and
with technology. We believe this work will other team members manage for our hardware
ultimately help build greater efficiencies across and software. These team members will receive DEDICATED
ORGANIZATION BUSINESS PARTNER
our organization that lead to greater employee training on how to utilize and integrate these
STRUCTURE
4 I
R
ADOPTI
O
COLLABORATION
learning and growth, lower rates of attrition, and automated tasks into their workflows. Insights FOR TRAINING N
greater consistency of quality in our products. gained from this automation will be used to
improve processes.
INNOVATION CROSS-SITE
SPACE COLLABORATION
DEDICATION
PRB
UPSKILL-RESKILL ACADEMIA
WORKFORCE COLLABORATION
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 19
Supporting
Thailand’s Innovation and Training Space
Our People
In Thailand, our innovation space brings together individuals, teams, or communities
(professors, students, business partners) to foster innovation, provide resources and
encourage the development of new ideas or solutions for the business.
You Matter Program
This space is used for physical or virtual engagements that facilitate creativity, collaboration,
and problem-solving. It can take the form of co-working spaces, incubators, maker spaces, Happy and healthy employees are more resilient,
or virtual collaboration platforms. more creative, and more productive. We invest in
benefits and resources that help our employees
Western Digital is committed to these efforts and focuses our skills-development programs prioritize physical, mental, and financial well-being
around continuous improvement initiatives. through our You Matter program, which empowers
employees to champion their well-being.
In FY2023, we achieved the following results:
The You Matter program has 4 pillars, including:
• 72.3% of employee population trained
• Health: preventative care, cancer awareness,
• 34 people-related digital initiatives completed
chronic disease management, access to care
• 47 process-related digital initiatives completed in our Digital Transformation Journey
• Financial: budgeting, savings, wealth building
• Emotional: mental health awareness,
mindfulness, behavioral support
• Lifestyle: nutrition, fitness, sleep
Recognized by Fast Company as one of the 10 most innovative manufacturing companies
in calendar year 2023 for upskilling 42% of our workforce at our Penang, Malaysia facility
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 20
Giving to
Our World
Our values — think big, create possibility, do it together, and make it
happen — extend to our philanthropic initiatives in the communities
where we live and work. Guided by our global strategy and powered
by our local employees, we invest in our communities by focusing
our philanthropy across four strategic pillars:
STEM Education Environment
Hunger Relief Equality
IN THIS SECTION:
Creating Goodness Together 22
Programs and Partnerships 23
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 21
FY2023
Creating Goodness Together
Global Giving and Doing Milestones
Collaborating with our nonprofit partners across the globe, we continue to make positive change in the
communities we call home and beyond through our strategic giving pillars.
STEM Education
31.8% 37,335
We are working with non-profit organizations who reach out to historically underrepresented
groups to foster their interest around STEM education and careers. By nurturing their interest
and creating a pathway to success, we hope to develop more diverse and inclusive generation
of engineers and scientists.
employee participation volunteer hours invested
in our communities
Hunger Relief
We partner with nonprofit organizations working to eradicate the root cause of hunger
while alleviating immediate needs locally and globally. In support of this, our annual
Global Hunger Relief campaign brings employees together to provide critical food supplies
and resources to communities in need. In addition to this Campaign, we provide grant and
50 $400K volunteer support throughout the year to nonprofit organizations battling food insecurity
in our local communities.
STEM scholarships offered to in equality grants provided to
Environment
underrepresented students nonprofit organizations
Around the globe, our employees come together in support of protecting, enhancing, and
caring for their natural environment. Through environmental education and stewardship
projects, we develop a deeper understanding of the local ecosystems and the actions we
can take in sustaining them.
Equality
10M
In partnership with our Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) and the Office of Inclusion,
we support nonprofit organizations championing a more equitable and inclusive world.
cumulative meals packed
since 2013
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 22
Programs and Partnerships
FY2023 was a year of reflection, big ideas, and action. By harnessing our employee volunteers’
passion and investing in strategic partnerships with our nonprofit partners, together we were able
to make a global impact while meeting the needs of our local communities.
STEM Scholarship Program
Innovation drives Western Digital’s technology To help bridge this representation gap,
and advancements in an ever-evolving industry. in FY2023 Western Digital refocused our STEM
Whether it’s artificial intelligence, machine scholarship program to support first-generation
learning, or data infrastructure, STEM education and historically underrepresented students
is the foundation of technological innovation. transferring from a community college to a
However, access to higher education for a four-year university in pursuit of a STEM degree.
deeper understanding of STEM is a challenge In FY2023, fifty $5,000 scholarships were offered
many students face due to financial barriers. to outstanding U.S.-based students, and we
This is especially the case for first generation are looking forward to publicly recognizing this
college students and those who are historically first cohort of recipients during FY2024.
underrepresented in STEM fields.
E3 Employee Affinity Group
This volunteer-led group of employees unites and generates grassroots employee
participation in sustainability education and work. Through the leadership of this group,
employees find deeper alignment and cross-collaboration between Global Giving and
Doing, Sustainability, and employee engagement opportunities that directly impact the
50
sustainability goals our organization has set for itself.
The group discusses topics that are relevant to sustainability, from a company as well as an
industry perspective. There are talks and seminars that have shown good participation levels
$5,000 scholarships
and have helped inspire action within Western Digital and our employees. As we go forward,
offered to outstanding there is an active effort underway to enhance the quality of dialogue in this forum and expand
the scope to cover Sustainability Hackathons and install structures and processes that
U.S.-based students
enable employees to partake in voluntary sustainability-related technical work and more.
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 23
We.care Employee FY2023 Volunteer Involvement
We Are Volunteering Everywhere
Volunteer Program
(WAVE) Campaign
With the support of leadership and the passion of our employee volunteers, FY23 was a record-
breaking year in driving community impact. Building on our past, Western Digital employees
Though volunteerism has been a part of Closing FY2023 on a tremendous note, the
have cumulatively achieved major milestones across the globe. Thank you to every volunteer
Western Digital’s culture for decades, FY2023 WAVE campaign engaged 7,395 employees
as “We Think Big” and “We Do It Together”!
was an exceptional year. With gratitude to our across 18 sites to collectively invest 12,834
employees for their generous commitment of volunteer hours in their communities. During
time, we reached the significant milestone of the month-long campaign, employees gathered
engaging 31.8% of our workforce in volunteerism; to clean up water ways, create care packages Over the last decade:
an increase of 23.8 percentage points from for neighbors in need, assemble STEM kits
FY2022. Exemplifying our core values of for students, build bee houses, construct 10M+ 9M+ $6M+
thinking big and doing it together, 18,629 unique bikes, and more. The expansive scope of
volunteers made this a banner year by leading volunteering reflected our employees’ passion
meals packed units of blood donated in volunteer grants for
and participating in 241 company-sponsored and commitment to making our communities
nonprofit partners raised
events that activated more than $1.1M in volunteer a better place for all.
grants to our nonprofit partners across the globe.
31.8%
Total Employee Volunteerism
37,335
volunteer hours
served
23.8% 18,629
point YoY increase unique volunteers
59 241
sites volunteer
represented events
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 24
Doing Business
with Integrity
At Western Digital, global business ethics is about creating a culture
committed to transparent and fair business practices. Our approach
to anti-corruption is set by our Board of Directors and our Executive
Leadership Team, and cascaded down to all employees, contractors,
and business partners. It is fundamental to who we are and how we
operate our business.
IN THIS SECTION:
Proactive Collaboration 26
Compliance Awareness and Training 26
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 25
Proactive Collaboration
Differentiation in
the marketplace
To ensure all Western Digital business partners throughout the supply chain understand that
compliance with anti-corruption laws is imperative for partnering with Western Digital, we are conducting
a global review of our highest-risk business partners. Collaboration between sales and procurement
teams has strengthened our operating model, leading to improved transactional visibility, embedding of
anti-corruption tenets and controls in our business model, and improved transparency for our leadership.
Compliance Awareness
We believe our focus
on being ethical,
and Training
Strong
responsible corporate
brand
citizens drives:
reputation
As part of our commitment to ethics at Western Digital, our teams completed annual ethics and
compliance training. Leaders across the company set a strong ethical tone from the top of our business
and drove their teams to complete the training. Although employees are not threatened with penalties or
negative consequences for noncompletion, each year we have achieved a 100% completion rate on our
online training course. Furthermore, compared to prior years we achieved this 100% completion faster,
Product and
suggesting a deepening commitment to ethics and compliance among our employees.
shareholder value
We expect that everyone at Western Digital consistently acts with integrity. We articulate this expectation
in our Global Code of Conduct. As our business grows and the world evolves, we must continually focus
resources and attention on our performance to ensure we remain a leader in business ethics.
th
5 100%
consecutive year being completion rate
honored on Ethisphere’s for annual online ethics
World’s Most Ethical and compliance training
Companies list
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 26
Fiscal Year 2023
General
Disclosures
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 27
General Disclosures IN THIS SECTION:
Our Business
Our Company 28
A Portfolio of Consumer and Business Brands 28
Our Operations and Workforce 28
Our Company
GRI 2-6
Western Digital is on a mission to unlock the potential of data by harnessing the possibility to use it.
With Flash and HDD franchises, underpinned by advancements in memory technologies, Western Digital’s
broad portfolio makes powerful data storage solutions at any scale, from the smallest intelligent devices
to the largest public clouds.
A Portfolio of Our Operations
Consumer and and Workforce
Business Brands
GRI 2-1, 2-6
Western Digital operates in more than 30 countries,
Western Digital understands where memory
with over a dozen manufacturing and product
technologies are headed, building transformative
assembly facilities. From our factories in Thailand
products and solutions that align with how its
to our research and development (R&D) centers in
customers use data today and in the future.
Israel and our engineering sites in Silicon Valley,
The company’s portfolio includes hard disk drives
we leverage the diversity of approximately 53,000
(HDDs), not-and logic (NAND) Flash drives,
employees around the world to innovate boldly,
solid-state drives (SSDs), and storage platforms,
unlock the power of data, and realize better
in addition to consumer products for professional,
business outcomes.
personal, and shared storage use. Our offerings
are marketed under the Western Digital®,
SanDisk®, and WD® brands.
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 28
General Disclosures IN THIS SECTION:
Our Strategy
Building a More Sustainable Future — One Data Point at a Time 29
Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement 29
Sustainable Development Goals 30
Governance 31
Building a More Materiality
Our Most Material
Sustainable Future and Stakeholder Sustainability Topics
— One Data Point Engagement
• Chemicals and Hazardous Substances
• Data Privacy and Security
at a Time
GRI 2-29, 3-1, 3-2 • Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion
• Ethical Business Practices
Western Digital conducted a double materiality Double materiality enables businesses to manage
Customers, investors, and business leaders
are demanding that sustainability be woven assessment in FY2022 to identify, assess, and topics that influence enterprise value as well as • Energy and Climate
prioritize our most important ESG topics. Building topics material to the economy, environment,
into the core of business. We know that
• Employee Health and Safety
on our previous assessment completed in and people. The assessment of Western Digital’s
operating sustainably protects our people,
our communities, and our planet, and it creates FY2020, we collected new data through customer impact on society and the environment was • Global Giving and Doing
interviews, shareholder outreach, employee informed by GRI’s Stakeholder Inclusiveness
value and opportunities for our company in the
• Human Rights
surveys and interviews, and market research. and Materiality Principles. The assessment of the
long run. As Western Digital further embeds
sustainable practices into our business strategy, The new data elevated the materiality of several potential impacts that an issue may have on our • Packaging and Logistics
key issues while showing global consistency with business was informed by the financial materiality
we continue to look to data and metrics to inform
• Policy Influence
results from the previous materiality exercise. definition referenced by the SASB Standards.
our priorities and initiatives.
The process helped us understand our most • Product End-of-Life Management
significant impacts, risks, and opportunities to
We acknowledge that data and metrics are
• Product Quality and Safety
better inform our business decision making.
most effective when they are openly disclosed.
We embrace transparency with our customers, • Responsible Materials Sourcing
partners, and peers through regular sustainability
• Responsible Product Use
reporting and other communications to advance
sustainable business practices and have a more • Talent Attraction, Engagement, and Retention
positive impact on the world around us.
• Tech for Good
• Waste Management
• Water Management
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 29
Sustainable
Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable Take urgent action to
economic growth, full and productive combat climate change
Development
employment, and decent work for all and its impacts
Goals
We work diligently to foster a working environment where Western Digital employees, A continued focus on data and efficiency has helped
as well as employees of our suppliers, are treated with respect and dignity and provided us meaningfully reduce energy usage and emissions,
with fair and safe working conditions. even as we increase shipments of our products.
Fulfilling the 17 Sustainable
Development Goals (SDGs) Actions taken in FY2023: Actions taken in FY2023:
by 2030 will require action from
• We have adopted leading employee safety and well-being programs and practices to • Our carbon reduction goals were approved
prioritize the mental and physical health of our people. We also occupy an important by the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi).
businesses like ours. We have
position in key world supply chains, and we leverage this unique position to foster We have committed to reduce Scope 1 and 2
identified three SDGs that
economic growth and advancement among our employees and suppliers, benefitting emissions by 42% by 2030 and reduce Scope 3
the communities where we operate and the world at large. use-phase emissions/TB by 50% by 2030,
align directly with our material
both from a 2020 base year.
sustainability priorities and
Read more about our human rights and labor practices.
• We are achieving year-over-year progress with
represent areas where we can
product energy intensity improvements and
Scope 1 and 2 emissions reductions. As of FY2022,
make the greatest contribution.
we have reduced our Scope 1 and 2 emissions
by more than 14% and as of FY2023 by 20.7%
To see how our initiatives connect
Ensure sustainable consumption vs the 2020 base year.
to additional SDGs, view our full
and production patterns
SDG index here. • Conservation actions and renewable energy
acquisition both played a part in the reductions.
During the relatively lower loading period, we
We seek to provide our customers with the most advanced, innovative, and sustainable data
instituted processes that placed our factory
infrastructure products in the world. We aim to minimize the environmental impact of our
equipment at various levels of shut down, thereby
products throughout their lifecycle to adapt to evolving market demands.
conserving power in addition to active idling.
We acquired bundled renewable energy by way
Actions taken in FY2023:
of the Green Energy Tariff program for our sites
in Malaysia.
• We have completed lifecycle assessments (LCAs) for nine high-volume Western Digital
products. These LCAs will be used to understand the environmental impacts associated
• We signed a Virtual Power Purchase Agreement
with each of our products at different phases of their lifecycle and will inform creation
(VPPA) in West Malaysia securing 75,000
of future products.
MWh/year from solar sources from FY2026.
• Our Easy Recycle program enables customers to recycle old data storage devices safely
and easily. The program has recycled more than 8,360 devices and diverted more than Read more about our energy and emissions.
3 metric tons of waste from landfills in the fiscal year.
Read more about our products’ life cycle.
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 30
Governance
The Audit Committee is also responsible
for reviewing the implementation of legal or
regulatory requirements regarding public
GRI 2-9 and TCFD Governance A disclosure of topics covered by our corporate
responsibility and sustainability programs
Western Digital’s strong corporate governance and management’s controls and procedures
demonstrates accountability and a high level of with respect to these disclosures.
integrity in management practices across the
organization. Our Board of Directors has standing Our executive leadership team sets and
Audit, Compensation and Talent, and Governance oversees our global sustainability strategy, with
committees; each committee operates in our corporate sustainability function directing
accordance with a written charter. Our Board and the implementation of that strategy, including
its standing committees oversee the company’s public reporting. A cross-functional Sustainability
strategic planning and risk management, and Working Group drives specific sustainability
regularly receive updates about the company’s initiatives throughout the company and includes
overall sustainability initiatives and performance. representatives from Corporate Sustainability,
People Solutions, Supply Chain Management,
The Governance Committee is responsible Quality, Sales and Marketing, Global Operations,
for assisting our Board in overseeing the Research and Development, Corporate Strategy,
development and maintenance of our corporate and Ethics and Compliance.
responsibility and sustainability policies,
practices, and programs. The committee has Our Board comprises a majority of independent
specific responsibility for periodically reviewing directors, including an independent Chair of
our policies and practices related to human the Board and a Lead Independent Director.
rights, environmental and climate change, and Each director is elected annually by a simple
other topics as may be designated by our Board majority of shareholder votes. As the strategic
from time to time. The Governance Committee direction of Western Digital evolves, we remain
receives updates from our sustainability group committed to ongoing Board refreshment
and management at least three times each and diversity. Our Corporate Governance
year and discusses implementation of new Guidelines require the Governance Committee
sustainability initiatives. to include — and instruct any search firm it
engages to include — women and members of
In addition, the Compensation and Talent underrepresented communities in the pool from
Committee periodically reviews our people which the committee selects director nominees.
policies and programs, including those focusing This provision reflects our Board’s continued
on talent attraction, engagement and retention, commitment to diversity in the boardroom.
and Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI). The
Audit Committee oversees Western Digital’s For more information, please refer to our
enterprise risk management process, including 2023 Proxy Statement and Corporate
assessments and policies, and has oversight of Governance Guidelines.
the Ethics and Compliance program.
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 31
General Disclosures IN THIS SECTION:
E nvironment
Energy and Emissions 32
Product Life Cycle Impacts 38
Chemical and Hazardous Substances 40
Energy and Emissions
Management Approach
GRI 3-3
Climate change is one of the most significant in manufacturing production and associated Integrated Management System
concerns facing our world today. As a global energy consumption to recommend our
Western Digital uses an Integrated Management
enterprise with operations in several particularly corporate-level reduction targets and strategy.
System (IMS) to manage corporate quality,
vulnerable regions of the world, Western Digital Each of our manufacturing sites uses this
environmental, health and safety, and business
is especially sensitive to the effects of climate target as the basis for establishing their energy
continuity standards. Our IMS continually evolves,
change. We are committed to doing our part conservation projects and initiatives. These
helping us more effectively measure and disclose
to decrease GHG emissions, reduce energy projects are the basis for our GHG reduction
our commitment to protecting the environment,
consumption, lower our climate impacts, and program. Each site provides status reports to
our people, and our business sustainability.
improve climate resiliency. the ERM PMO and corporate management
Our IMS Policy includes a commitment to
team semi-annually.
protect the environment and is underpinned by
Our Global Operations Sustainability organization
industry-recognized environmental certification
is responsible for overseeing and enabling Additionally, the Global ERM Committee
for all sites on a global multi-site certificate to
progress on energy and emissions, product analyzes near-term energy efficiency
ISO 14001:2015.
lifecycle impacts, and responsible supply improvement projects’ performance against
chain. Our Corporate Real Estate & Workplace targets, meeting semi-annually to report progress
Visit our Corporate Responsibility Resource
(CREW) organization is responsible for energy and share best practices. Representatives from
Center webpage for more information on
conservation across facilities. The Global each manufacturing site are responsible for
certifications earned through the IMS.
Energy and Resource Management Program identifying and monitoring energy efficiency
Management Office (PMO) analyzes trends improvement projects.
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 32
Targets and Goals
In June 2023, we set four new environmental To achieve our 2030 Goals, we are focused • We are participating in the Green Electricity
goals. Our new target commitments include: primarily on energy reductions through increased Tariff program run by the Malaysian government
operational efficiencies, adoption of on-site solar, and local utilities. This program allows us
• Running our global operations on 100% and direct procurement of renewable energy. We to procure renewable energy for certain key
renewable energy by 2030
consider available opportunities across all of our Western Digital sites in Malaysia, and to
operations and locations and implement them support the development of renewable energy
• Achieving net zero emissions in the company’s
where practical after careful evaluation. We are in the region.
operations (Scope 1 and 2 emissions) by 2032
making progress in several areas:
• Reducing water withdrawals by 20% by 2030 • Our site in Shanghai received TRUE Zero Waste
Gold Level Certification in early FY2023.
• As of mid-2021, Western Digital’s facilities
• Diverting more than 95% of our operational
in Northern California run on 100%
waste from landfills by 2030
Additionally, we completed an analysis of
renewable energy.
our FY2022 Scope 3 GHG inventory to better
We have also committed to reduce our Scope 1 • As of 2023, our Philippines Laguna site runs understand our value chain impacts and
and 2 emissions by 42% by 2030, from a 2020 on 100% renewable energy.
to support the development of the science
base year. We have also committed to reduce
based target. The results of this inventory
• In Thailand, we continue to work closely with
Scope 3 use-phase emissions per terabyte by
have been published in Western Digital’s
the Energy Regulatory Commission and the
50% by 2030 from a 2020 base year. These
response to the 2023 CDP Climate Change
Electricity Generation Authority of Thailand
targets were approved by the Science Based
Questionnaire. We will also complete the analysis
to explore the Utility Green Tariff program.
Targets initiative (SBTi) in September 2021. As of
of our FY2023 Scope 3 emissions and disclose
We plan to procure additional renewable
the end of FY2023, we have reduced our Scope
those results publicly in the 2024 CDP Climate
energy to support 3 manufacturing locations
1 and 2 emissions by more than 20%, putting us
Change Questionnaire.
beyond the 180,000 MWh per year secured via
nearly a third of the way to our 2030 Goal in just
the Sandbox program for FY2023 and FY2024.
two years.
Furthermore, Western Digital remains focused
• Western Digital is working to implement on-site on energy conservation. In FY2023, we set
solar at multiple facilities around the world. One
an assertive target for energy conservation
facility in Malaysia began generating power in
measures corresponding to >2.0% reduction
early 2023, and we are planning to expand this
of energy use over FY2022. We met this
capacity in FY2024.
annual target and completed planned energy
conservation measures corresponding to
>2.0% reduction.
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 33
Energy Resource differences in normalized utility consumption Climate Risk Management
between locations. Thus, we launched an ERM
Management Program and Resiliency
benchmarking project to better understand
We reduce the amount of energy and carbon in differences in operations and processes TCFD Governance B and Risk Management
our operations through various Energy Resource and identify opportunities for further utility
A, B, and C
Management (ERM) Program initiatives. Since optimization. All data will be openly shared
2007, we have saved approximately $55 million between facilities to promote collaborative,
At Western Digital, we actively monitor and
in energy costs by reducing our energy collective improvement.
manage our impact on the environment, as
consumption while collecting critically important
well as the environment’s potential impact on
information and data. Western Digital’s CRE and Global Operations
our business. Our executive leadership team
organization conduct regular assessments
reviews and evaluates our enterprise risks each
All major manufacturing and R&D facilities with local energy management experts to review
year in conjunction with our Enterprise Risk
participate in our global ERM Program. Working current operational processes and identify
Management Program. Several risks — including
as one global team, we focus on collaboration opportunities for higher energy efficiency. For
climate-related risks — are assessed as a matter
and promote knowledge sharing across locations example, we increase reliance on high-efficiency
of course. Risks identified during this process
to identify opportunities to optimize energy and machines and further promote energy
are assigned to functional or regional leaders for
water use and responsible waste management. efficiency through cost-neutral, procedural,
management and/or mitigation, depending on the
In FY2023, our ERM team achieved our 2% or behavioral changes.
characteristics of the risk. Key enterprise risks
annual reduction target for all energy, water and
are raised to the Audit Committee and full Board.
waste. We have improved our efficiency each
Internal Audits If climate-related issues rise to the level of a key
year since the ERM program was reestablished
enterprise risk, they will be reviewed as part of
in 2014. GRI 3-3
this process. The Audit Committee of the Board
has responsibility for oversight of the Enterprise
ERM data is collected and managed on a Western Digital conducts audits of our
Risk Management program.
common global application. Reports are Environmental Management System as part of
communicated internally to a leadership our broader IMS implementation. All Western
team from Finance, Facilities, Manufacturing Digital sites use IMS procedures for internal
Operations, and Corporate Sustainability for their audits, controlled at the corporate level through
review. In FY2022, we conducted a normalized our Central Program Office, which allow us to
analysis to compare ERM performance between apply corrections and lessons learned across
similar sites (e.g., comparison between two final our numerous sites.
assembly plants). Analysis showed significant
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 34
Climate Scenario Analysis
TCFD Strategy C
In 2021, Western Digital partnered with BSR, a • Strategic Implications: A workshop was We disclose additional TCFD-aligned information, To view how our disclosures demonstrate
conducted with internal Western Digital including information to support climate-related alignment with TCFD, view our TCFD Index
global nonprofit that works with its network of
stakeholders to identify the potential risks governance, strategy, risk management, and linked here.
over 250 member companies to build a just and
and opportunities for each scenario as well as metrics and targets in our annual response to
sustainable world. Together we developed three
ideas to enhance Western Digital’s resilience the CDP Climate Questionnaire. Our recent CDP
scenarios for 2030 which explored climate-
and refine our strategy. Climate Change responses can be found on our
related risks and opportunities, third-party
Corporate Responsibility website.
climate data points and other key uncertainties
As a result of this process, we identified three
relevant to Western Digital’s business. The
areas of our strategy that may incur risks
scenario analysis was completed in alignment
and opportunities across all scenarios. These
with TCFD expectations. The scenario analysis
scenario insights will be reviewed by Western
process involved the following steps: TCFD Climate Scenario Analysis
Digital’s Sustainability and Enterprise Risk
• Understanding Context: BSR interviewed Management teams and incorporated into our
Scenario Name Automation Walled World Resilient Rebirth
internal stakeholders to identify key trends that strategy and risk management processes as
Acceleration
are shaping Western Digital’s future operating deemed necessary.
context. BSR conducted complementary
Key Parameters A geopolitically A geopolitically fragmented A recovering economy fully
research on trends (environmental, economic, In FY2022, we engaged with Jacobs Solutions fragmented world, a slow world, a challenging embracing the low-carbon
social, political, and technological) relevant to to perform a detailed Vulnerability Assessment global economy and economic situation and transition in a cooperative
Western Digital’s industry and geography. to identify key vulnerabilities related to climate ramping-up climate impact scaled environmental shocks way, still subject to
environmental shocks
and climate-related physical hazards, other
• Scenario Development: Western Digital
physical hazards, human factors, and transition
leveraged a set of three 2030 scenarios Temperature Assumptions +3°C +4°C +1.5°C
factors across our global facilities. As part of this
(above pre-industrial levels
developed by BSR for the We Mean Business Slowly declining Rising emissions Strongly declining
effort, we are developing an interactive geospatial by 2100)
coalition, with extensive input from the climate emissions emissions
tool that presents vulnerability assessment data
community. The scenarios were augmented
(such as hotspot areas and key site hazards) Emissions Reduction Representative Representative Representative
with industry and geography trends and
via an easy-to-understand graphic interface. Models Concentration Pathway Concentration Pathway Concentration Pathway
incorporated credible climate projections
By more effectively integrating up-to-date 6.0 8.5 2.6
(from ~1.5°C – ~4°C) for emissions reductions
vulnerability assessment information into our Shared Socioeconomic Shared Socioeconomic Shared Socioeconomic
and climate impacts, as shown in Figure 1.
business processes, we expect to improve Pathway 4 (low challenges Pathway 3 (high challenges Pathways 1 (low challenges
Furthermore, whereas third-party climate
operational resilience. The assessment is aligned to mitigation, high to mitigation and adaptation) to mitigation/adaptation)
projections consider a small range of variables,
challenges to adaptation)
with the TCFD framework, including future
e.g., fuel mix, GDP growth, etc., the scenarios
scenario analysis up to 2050 under different
used by Western Digital augmented these with 1 The Representative Concentration Pathways (RCPs) represent different emissions, concentration, and radiative forcing projections leading to a large range
IPCC scenarios. of global warming levels, from continued warming rising above 4 °C by the year 2100 to limiting warming well below 2 °C as called for in the Paris Agreement
consideration of additional factors such as
(RCP Database – Version 2.0). These were used in the IPCC Fifth Assessment Report. The Shared Socioeconomic Pathways (SSPs) build upon the RCPs by
political developments, emerging technologies modeling how socioeconomic factors, such as economic, population and technology developments may impact actual emissions reductions (SP Database –
and new business. Shared Socioeconomic Pathways – V 2.0). These will be included in the IPCC Sixth Assessment Report.2 Gender data is based on self-identification.
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 35
Key Metrics
GRI 2-5 TCFD Metrics and Targets A and C GRI 302-1, TC-SC-130a.1
We are proud of our efforts to minimize operational Western Digital commits to reduce absolute Energy consumption FY2021 FY2022 FY2023 FY2021 FY2022 FY2023
energy use and the resulting emissions. Our FY2023 Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions 42% by FY2030 within the organization1
GHG emissions inventory is currently undergoing from a FY2020 base year. Western Digital also
limited assurance. For the full verification report, commits to reduce Scope 3 GHG emissions from GIGAWATT HOURS TRILLION JOULES
please visit the Corporate Responsibility use of sold products 50% per petabyte capacity
Total fuel consumption 159.6 164.7 160.8 574.6 592.7 578.9
Resource center on our corporate website to sold by FY2030 from a FY2020 base year.
from nonrenewable sources
view the statement of assurance once it is made
(gas/oil)
available. We also communicate our efforts The targets covering GHG emissions from
with external stakeholders through our annual company operations (Scopes 1 and 2) are Total fuel consumption from 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
response to CDP’s climate change questionnaire. consistent with reductions required to keep renewable sources
warming to 1.5°C.
Total Electricity consumption 1,941.4 1,996.2 1,755.4 6,989.1 7,186.2 6,319.4
Electricity consumption 279.9 467.9 485.1 1,007.6 1,684.5 1,746.4
from renewable sources
Electricity consumption 1,661.5 1,528.2 1,270.2 5,981.5 5,501.7 4,572.7
from nonrenewable
Renewable Energy Progress
sources
Total energy consumption 2,101.0 2,101.0 1,916.2 7,563.7 7,563.7 6,898.3
1 Data includes the main research, development, and manufacturing facilities owned by Western Digital Corporation in each fiscal year. These facilities are located
100%
100 in the United States, China, India, Israel, Japan, Malaysia, Philippines, and Thailand. Western Digital continues to reference the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG
Protocol), the most widely used international accounting tool for government and business leaders, to understand, quantify, and manage GHG emissions.
MFG sites
80
GRI 302-3
60 Energy Intensity FY2021 FY2022 FY2023
Energy intensity ratio (kWh/PB)1 3,883.6 3,350.1 3,829.3
40
31%
1 The energy intensity ratio is based on energy consumed within the organization and is measured in kilowatt-hours per petabyte. Types of energy included are
fuel and electricity. The denominator is shipped storage capacity.
23%
20
6%
0%
FY20 FY21 FY22 FY23 FY30
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 36
GRI 305-1, SASB TC-SC-110a.1
Total Direct (Scope 1) FY2021 FY2022 FY2023 Conversion Factor Total Direct (Scope 1) FY2021 FY2022 FY2023 Conversion Factor
GHG Emissions (CO e-ton) GHG Emissions (CO e-ton)
2 2
CO (gas/oil + cleaning) 33,558.3 34,485.0 36,447.8 1 R-514A 0.0 0.0 2.1 2,000 (lbs/lbs)
2
CH 0.0 0.0 0.0 N/A
4 Total Scope 1 46,152.0 48,310.7 139,982.3
N O 0.0 0.0 0.0 N/A
2 1 The conversion factor for HFC-23 is calculated by Western Digital. It is determined by facility based on the international technical review of the abatement
process in manufacturing. The conversion factor for HFC-134a is based on the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) fifth assessment report,
HFCs1 (HFC-23, HFC-32, HFC-134a) 903.6 4,438.0 1,206.4 HFC-23: Multiple factors:
100-year number.
12,400 (lbs/lbs)
2 Western Digital has updated its Scope 1 inventory and is reporting emissions for HFC-43-10 beginning in FY2023.
3,047 (lbs/lbs)
3 Some facilities use the IPCC fifth assessment report, 100-year number, and others use conversion factors determined by facility based on the international
HFC-32: 677 (lbs/lbs)
technical review of the abatement process in manufacturing.
HFC-134a: 1,300 (lbs/lbs)
4 Calculated by Western Digital: the conversion factor is determined by facility based on the international technical review of the abatement process in manufacturing.
HFC-43-102 0.0 0.0 88,496.9 1,650 (lbs/lbs) 5 IPCC fifth assessment report, 100-year number.
6 IPCC fifth assessment report, 100-year number.
PFCs 0.0 0.0 0.0 N/A
7 Global warming potential (GWP) is calculated based on component gases’ GWPs (44% HFC-125, 4% HFC-134a, 52% HFC 143a).
8 GWP is calculated based on component gases’ GWPs (25% HFC-125, 52% HFC-134a, 23% HFC-32).
SF 3 2,324.1 270.0 629.0 Multiple factors:
6
23,500 (lbs/lbs) 9 GWP is calculated based on component gases’ GWPs (50% HFC-32 , 50% HFC-125).
10,575 (lbs/lbs) 10 GWP is calculated based on component gases’ GWPs (39% HFC-23, 61% PFC-116).
9,623 (lbs/lbs)
GRI 305-2
NF 4 4.7 0.2 1.2 2,898 (lbs/lbs)
3
CF 3 409.4 58.0 107.2 Multiple factors: Total Indirect (Scope 2) FY2021 FY2022 FY2023
4
6,630 (lbs/lbs) GHG Emissions (CO e-ton)1
2
4,774 (lbs/lbs)
4,344 (lbs/lbs)
CO e2 929,882.7 841,669.2 683,977.1
2
C F 4 3.5 7.4 8.0 6,010 (lbs/lbs)
4 8
1 Scope 2 market-based emissions; all gases CO, CH, and NO are included.
2 4 2
HFE71005 7,540.1 8,214.6 11,529.4 421.0 (lbs/lbs) 2 International Energy Association (IEA) emission factors
HFE72005 8.6 8.6 14.8 57 (lbs/lbs)
GRI 305-3
HCFC-225 93.1 156.8 620.2 1,760 (lbs/lbs)
Other Indirect (Scope 3) FY2021 FY2022 FY2023
HCFC-1226 0.0 10.6 0.0 59 (lbs/lbs)
GHG Emissions (CO e-ton)
2
HCFC-1235 14.2 42.8 141.2 79 (lbs/lbs)
Category 6: Business Travel1, 2 361.6 5,442.7 7,547.9
R-404A7 1,292.5 1,535.9 12.4 3,943 (lbs/lbs)
R-407C8 0.0 0.0 206.3 1,624 (lbs/lbs) Category 11: Use of Sold Products3 6,127,263.0 6,603,594.0 4,314,614.2
R-410A9 0.0 82.9 559.4 1,923 (lbs/lbs) 1 At this time, reported Scope 3, Category 6: business travel emissions include business air travel only.
2 Defra emission factors.
R-508B10 0.0 0.0 0.0 11,607 (lbs/lbs)
3 IPCC sixth assessment report, 100-year number, grid emission factor.
Note: Our complete FY2020, FY2021, and FY2022 Scope 3 inventories are disclosed in our 2021, 2022, and 2023 CDP Climate Change response, which are
posted on our Corporate Responsibility website.
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 37
Product
(OEM) requirements to consumer products, We extensively test our HDDs as part of the Packaging
while maximizing manufacturing efficiency and manufacturing process to confirm integrity and
GRI 3-3
Lifecycle reducing material waste. We strive to reduce energy performance. To reduce manufacturing
the power consumption of our devices and raw energy and minimize capital expenditures for test
As a company of innovators, we seek to
materials usage on a per-byte basis and to equipment, we continuously work to improve our
Impacts constantly push boundaries in all aspects of
increase capacity of our storage devices in a testing efficiency and reduce overall test time.
our products — and packaging is no exception.
given form factor, which results in better energy While market demands require larger drive sizes,
Packaging is an essential part of any product.
and materials management per byte of storage. which tend to increase per-product test times, our
Aside from providing a positive first-brand
engineering teams work to keep energy intensity
Management Approach touchpoint or great out-of-the-box experience
Lifecycle Assessments for such tests trending downward.
for the customer, packaging protects products
GRI 3-3 Western Digital continued our progress with
during shipping and warehousing and, when done
Product End-of-Life
product LCAs, in accordance with ISO 14040
right, can dramatically reduce storage, handling
Adopting circular economy principles is the way and ISO 14044, to understand impacts We are committed to making product recyclability
and shipping costs.
of the future. Partnering with our customers at associated with each life cycle phase. In FY2023, easy. We abide by the European Union Waste
every step, we aim to minimize the environmental we completed a ISO-conformant life cycle Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE)
In FY2023, we extended our years-long effort
impact of our products throughout their life cycle assessment to evaluate the impacts of our directive. We label Western Digital products
to make our packaging more sustainable and
and adapt to evolving market demands. products. We currently have conducted a total of and/or packaging with the appropriate end-
efficient. We are actively increasing the usage of
nine product LCAs and several carbon footprint of-life symbols for their respective regions.
recycled content in our packaging and innovating
Western Digital’s engineering teams — summaries are available on our Corporate Additionally, we have established global minimum
to reduce packaging materials generally.
including Research and Development (R&D), Responsibility website. We are using the LCA requirements for handling and disposing of
Manufacturing, and Quality Management — are data to identify the most significant opportunities electronic waste (e-waste) from our own facilities
These multi-year efforts resulted in the following
responsible for managing our product life cycle to reduce our impacts. and offices to eliminate or minimize negative
impacts in FY2023:
impacts. Our R&D team helps ensure product environmental impact.
efficiency by design. In collaboration with our For more information, see Western Digital’s • HDD packaging: third-party verified to contain
Corporate Sustainability function, the Product WEEE Statement. Western Digital is currently transitioning to 45-64% recycled content
Environmental Compliance (PEC) team under circularity by mapping value streams to identify
• Paper:
our Quality Management organization manages circular opportunities for data storage devices.
Western Digital’s overall life cycle assessment The internal circular operating model consists • Redesigned Flash product packaging to
Product Energy Efficiency and Emissions
(LCA) process. of life extension, reuse and resell of drives, and reduce paper usage by approx. 35% weight
Ongoing growth in demand for data storage advanced recycling. We model the projected
• HDD: 95% recycled paper materials for
Design can lead to increases in product-related energy rates of retired drives that are currently being
carton boxes
consumption, driving our customers to ask for shredded. Meanwhile, internal drives previously
Maximizing functional storage produced on
a materials-used basis starts with efficient product energy reductions. Western Digital designated for testing are being repurposed. • Plastic pallets for enterprise products:
works to meet these demands by investing in the Our intent is for both internal and external failed
product design. Our product channels and
• HDD: 30% recycled polypropylene
engineering required to continuously reduce our drives to go through an elemental recovery
vertical integration allow us to exactly match
the storage we produce to product cost and HDD and flash-based product energy needs. phase to achieve high throughput and maximize • Plastic trays for bulk flash products:
yield. The desired outcome is to have a greater
performance requirements ranging from
• Redesigned plastic trays to use approx.
than 90% recycled yield including rare earth
stringent original equipment manufacturer
50% less PET plastic by weight
metals recovery.
• Increasing use of recycled PET to 25%
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 38
Key Metrics GRI 306-3, 306-4, 306-5, TC-SC-150a.1
To underscore our commitment to minimizing Waste FY20221 FY2023
the environmental impacts of our products, we Metric Tons
track specific metrics that align with our strategic
objectives. We are proud to report consistent
HAZARDOUS WASTE
year-over-year reductions in GHG emissions
intensity for both HDD and SSD products Hazardous Waste Diverted 7,119.4 2,496.6
since 2020.
Hazardous Waste Disposed 4,598.3 4,394.5
Total Hazardous Waste 11,730.7 6,891.4
NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE
Non-Hazardous Waste Diverted 8,355.3 9,848.2
GRI 302-5
Non-Hazardous Waste Disposed 2,915.5 3,391.4
Total Non-Hazardous Waste 11,784.9 13,285.2
Electrical Power Savings FY2021 FY2022 FY2023
Total Waste Generated 23,515.6 20,176.6
Annual electrical power savings due to HDD 2,231.61 2,988.11 3,627.9
power efficiency innovations (million kWh) Waste Reuse/Recycle/Recover Rate 65.8% 61.2%
1 The annual electrical power savings for FY2021 and FY2022 have been restated from previously published data due to an update of the supporting data. 1 Due to updates of the underlying data, waste-related data for FY2022 has been restated.
GRI 305-4 TC-HW-410a.4
GHG Emissions Intensity1 FY2021 FY2022 FY2023 End-of-Life Material1 FY20232
GHG emissions intensity ratio — HDD (Tons/PB)2 1.7 1.2 1.4 Total # of devices recycled 30,325.0
GHG emissions intensity ratio — SSD (Tons/PB)2 2.6 2.2 2.5 Total amount of waste diverted from landfill by program (metric tons)2 12.7
1 The denominator used to calculate the GHG emissions intensity ratio is shipped memory capacity. 1 Represents material recovered through Western Digital’s Easy Recycle Program. Recovery partner holds an e-Steward certification.
2 Includes Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions and all gasses CO, CH, NO, HFCs, PFCs, SF and NF. 2 Results are cumulative from the program’s inception in April 2020 through the end of the specified fiscal year.
2 4 2 6 3
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 39
Chemicals
the EU Registration, Evaluation, Authorization Policies All of Western Digital’s global operations follow
and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH); the United Nations Globally Harmonized System
and Hazardous the EU WEEE; the EU Packaging and Western Digital’s Policy describes our commitment of Classification and Labeling of Chemicals
to environmental compliance for all of our
Battery Directives; and our OEM customer to protect our manufacturing workers from
products and operations IMS, including chemicals
Substances requirements. Our PEC team sets specifications chemicals and hazardous substances. We provide
and hazardous substances management.
on use of hazardous chemicals and routine training to workers using this framework.
International Electrotechnical Commission
Additionally, our PEC Engineering Specification
(IEC) 62474 declarable substances based on
Key Metrics
Why it Matters and Requirements for Materials, Parts and
all applicable legal regulations. All product
Product Protective Packaging identifies the
suppliers are required to provide a Material
During FY2023, Western Digital saw zero dollars in
GRI 3-3 product requirements of the PEC team. We send
Declaration Data Sheet (MDDS), inductively
fines for product environmental non-compliance.
the specification to all relevant suppliers and
coupled plasma-atomic emission spectrometry
Though Western Digital products generally
The manufacturing process for storage drives update the specification regularly.
(ICP-AES) laboratory test reports, and an
contain IEC 62474 declarable substances, we
requires the use of chemicals. Our workers
Environmental Declaration of Compliance to
meet all legal requirements for those substances.
may come into contact with chemicals during
ensure conformity with our specifications. Responsible Manufacturing Practices The main IEC 62474 declarable substances used
product manufacturing, so we strive for risk-free
We use the Compliance MAP database to
in Western Digital products — lead and nickel —
worksites and products, innovating to minimize We believe in a proactive approach to managing
store the supplier MDDS reports and manage
are fully compliant with regulations wherever our
the use of hazardous chemicals as we seek product chemicals and hazardous substances in
environmental compliance for all our products.
products are sold:
safer alternatives. our operations and our products.
In FY2023, we maintained a recordkeeping system • Lead is exempted under the EU’s RoHS
Our Global Environmental Health and Safety
Management Approach to document compliance with all requirements regulations and Western Digital’s use of lead
Operational Control Requirements Manual sets
(including full material declarations, test reports is consistent with those regulations.
our minimum corporate requirements for chemical
GRI 3-3 and CoC reports) and implemented compliance
management within Western Digital’s operations. • Nickel is used as a component plating,
assurance tools such as C2P and CMAP to
which does not come into contact with
It covers authorization and use of chemicals prior
Two teams are responsible for managing track compliance data of our products. We also
consumers/users.
to purchasing, maintenance of chemical Safety
chemicals and hazardous substances in our established a process to report compliance
Data Sheets, planning and response, and spill
operations and products: issues to senior management and developed a
Our PEC team monitors our company-specific
prevention and mitigation. We enforce specific
root cause analysis process. Our PEC processes
key performance indicators and reports them to
• Global Environmental Health and Safety team: have remained up to date with new market site-level procedures and regulations for safe
the Vice President, Operations, Customer, and
Sets corporate environmental, health, and safety chemicals management and storage during all
regulations and customer requirements and we
Corporate Quality quarterly. We are proud to report
management requirements for operational stages of chemical use.
have responded to requests with 100% customer
we met our FY2023 target to respond to 100% of
use of chemicals in Western Digital’s research,
satisfaction. We have regularly passed audits
customer product environmental inquiries on time.
development, and manufacturing operations.
conducted by major OEM customers.
• Product Environmental Compliance TC-HW-410a.1 , TC-SC-410a.1
team: Ensures products meet worldwide For more information on our IMS, please
environmental regulations, including the EU see the Energy and Emissions section of IEC62474 Declarable Substances FY2021 FY2022 FY2023
Directive on the Restriction of the use of this report.
certain Hazardous Substances (RoHS);
Percentage of products by revenue that contain IEC 62474 100% 100% 100%
declarable substances1
1 Though Western Digital’s products generally contain IEC 62474 declarable substances, we meet all legal requirements for those substances. The main IEC
62474 declarable substances used in Western Digital products — lead and nickel — are fully compliant with regulations wherever our products are sold.
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 40
General Disclosures IN THIS SECTION:
Supply Chain
Human Rights and Labor Practices 41
Critical Minerals and Metals 43
Supply Chain Resiliency 50
Our Approach Human Rights and Labor Practices
Our supply chain approach, detailed below,
has the overall objective of increased resiliency
and accountability, which we believe will lead to Management Approach
Policies
better working conditions and, as a result, a more
responsible and resilient supply chain. GRI 3-3 Western Digital has a set of tiered policies Each factory’s general manager commits to
regarding human rights. First and foremost, abiding by our Global Code of Conduct, our
Western Digital has an extensive in-house Respecting and upholding human rights is a our Global Human Rights Policy outlines Supplier Code of Conduct and country-specific
manufacturing network and hundreds of global foundational aspect of how we do business. the company’s commitment to respecting Work Rules. Our company policies adhere to
production parts, suppliers, and contract We work diligently to ensure that Western Digital human rights, both in our operations and applicable local labor laws and conform to the
manufacturers across the globe. We rely on and supplier employees are met with a working supply chain. Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) Code of
our suppliers to provide the materials typically environment where they are treated with respect Conduct. We routinely train relevant decision
used in the type of products we develop, and dignity and are provided with fair and safe In addition, we set forth expectations for all makers on human rights and labor issues such
including tantalum, tin, tungsten and gold (3TG) working conditions. Western Digital employees in our Global Code as human trafficking, modern slavery, forced
minerals, chemicals and additives, components, of Conduct — published in 9 languages — on labor, child labor, and more. Staff who are located
and packaging necessary to manufacture our Our human rights and labor approach includes which all employees receive annual training. on sites that engage in manufacturing receive
products. Our manufacturing and assembly policies, due diligence, stakeholder engagement, Human Rights and Labor Practices Country- mandatory training on the RBA Code of Conduct
facilities and contract manufacturers in China, and grievance mechanisms and remedies. Western specific Work Rules and policies and factory-level through the RBA’s e-Learning program. This
Malaysia, Thailand, the Philippines, Taiwan and Digital’s Responsible Sourcing Management policies reinforce our commitment to treat all includes employees who are directly involved in
the United States develop the products we team, under the Global Procurement function, is employees with dignity and respect. Our Supplier manufacturing activities, and also employees
ship globally. The majority of Western Digital’s responsible for continuously monitoring potential Code of Conduct sets policy expectations for our in other critical functions at these sites such
manufacturing workforce comprises directly human rights violations in our supply chain, suppliers. They must additionally communicate as procurement, HR, and EHS.
hired employees whom we employ and manage. primarily through the use of Responsible Business these expectations downstream through the
Because our employees are our most valuable Alliance (RBA) Validated Assessment Program rest of our supply chain and monitor compliance. Our collective set of policies helps create an
asset, we take specific measures to oversee their (VAP) audits. environment with strong labor practices where
working conditions and protect their long-term all our manufacturing workers can thrive.
well-being. And we take steps to employ new
predictive procurement tools and processes that
can enable us to avoid supply chain risk and
disruption more easily.
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 41
Due Diligence Stakeholder Engagement Grievance Mechanisms Supplier Vetting and Auditing
and Collaboration
Western Digital both proactively and reactively As detailed in the Integrity section of this report, GRI 3-3, 408-1, 409-1, 414-2
assesses human rights-related risks and potential Western Digital provides multiple avenues for
We proactively engage with internal and
impacts in connection with our policies, practices, employees to speak up concerning conduct Western Digital leverages the RBA Code of
external stakeholders as we evaluate our impacts
and management approach. We conduct human contrary to our policies, including human rights Conduct, along with our own Global Human
and work to improve the effectiveness of our
rights due diligence and impact assessments at violations, with the option to report concerns Rights Policy, to reduce the risks of human rights
Human Rights Program:
regular intervals and whenever appropriate based directly to their manager, Ethics and Compliance, abuses and forced or child labor throughout
on circumstances or reports. Specifically, we • Since 2010, Western Digital has collaborated People Solutions, or Legal; or through our global our supply chain. We disclose our supply
monitor our human rights and labor practices in with other major electronics companies Ethics Helpline. We offer the Helpline to anyone chain practices in accordance with the U.K.
both owned and supplier facilities through audits to launch supply chain capacity-building who suspects misconduct at our company, Modern Slavery Act of 2015 and the California
and risk assessments. The RBA requires audits seminars and workshops. The seminars whether employed by Western Digital or not, Transparency in Supply Chain Act.
of factories generating finished goods biennially and workshops cover topics such as human which includes suppliers’ workers and their
and these thorough reviews of our facilities and rights, responsible hiring, foreign worker legitimate representatives. Additionally, each year, we ask our highest-volume
practices help us maintain high standards for management, GHG emissions/carbon footprint, and highest-risk suppliers to reiterate in writing
protecting our employees. Over the last two fiscal energy efficiency management, process Grievances from our supply chain workforce their commitment to human rights protections,
years, we completed full-scope VAP initial audits chemical management, and water stewardship. can also be escalated through third parties, including adherence to Western Digital’s Supplier
in our RBA audit factories in China, Malaysia and such as the RBA, labor activists, and NGOs, Code of Conduct, Western Digital’s Global Human
• Western Digital works closely with several
Thailand, where the audits resulted in Platinum and are directed to our Responsible Sourcing Rights Policy, the RBA Code of Conduct, and
partners to reduce the risk of forced labor.
certificates in China and Thailand. More detail on Management team for resolution. responsible minerals sourcing.
We continue to work closely with our suppliers
our Supplier Auditing and Vetting program can be
and the RBA to audit practices to ensure
found below. We also require suppliers representing 90% of
suppliers are at all times following appropriate Remedies
our cumulative spend, plus strategic and single-
recruiting practices and that any necessary
We also conduct periodic enterprise-wide risk If Western Digital learns of potential human rights source suppliers’ facilities, to conduct annual
reimbursements are promptly provided to
assessments to specifically cover forced and abuses or other conduct contrary to our policies self-assessments and biennial RBA VAP audits,
impacted employees. Where we have found
child labor and consider the types and locations committed by our employees or suppliers, we which may include Tier 2 component suppliers.
issues regarding recruitment fees, we have
of our operations, among other factors. These take remedial action proportionate to the offense.
worked quickly to remediate them. Through our
assessments help us ensure our practices are Such remediation may include investigating, RBA assigns a third-party auditing firm based
partnership with the RBA, we were made aware
aligned with our deep commitment to protect coordinating and tracking progress against on its VAP manual and audit protocol to complete
of one supplier with recruitment fee issues
the rights of our workforce and supply-chain corrective action plans, requiring additional announced supplier audits. RBA releases its
during FY2023. We worked with the RBA and
workers and create a positive and safe working audits (suppliers only), or possible suspension official audit report via the RBA-ON platform,
other member companies to see that over
environment for everyone. This process includes or termination of the relationship. where Western Digital monitors progress and
$271.2K USD was reimbursed to affected
conducting human rights impact assessments drives change based on the findings. If labor
employees within the supply chain.
(HRIAs) consistent with the UN Guiding Principles Our Responsible Sourcing Management team issues exist, we follow standard procedures
on Business and Human Rights. In FY2021, we • We have actively participated in the works to immediately remedy issues discovered outlined in the VAP manual to assure suppliers’
conducted a HRIA and have been using the results Responsible Labor Initiative (RLI) since its in our supply chain. Afterwards, it works with timely correction of non-conformance issues
and recommendations from the assessment to founding in 2017. Through the RLI, we discuss our supply chain partners to investigate and and we closely follow up with them.
enhance our policies, procedures, and practices best practices, collaborate with peers to implement long-term fixes to prevent these
to mitigate potential risks. We plan to conduct develop cross-industry standards for healthy issues from reoccurring. Throughout this process, Western Digital also uses the RBA VAP
our next HRIA in FY2024. and sustainable working conditions, and progress is regularly communicated to those who audit as a tool to monitor the sustainability
utilize shared resources to monitor our own raised the issue, if requested. of our suppliers. We tie this requirement to
practices and those of our suppliers. our Supplier Performance Review scorecard
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 42
and evaluate suppliers according to the prospective employees. We regularly audit the Responsible Minerals Sourcing
performance assessed by the VAP audit. brokers’ practices and only collaborate with
Additionally, Western Digital’s Audit Program brokers who strictly uphold our full commitment
follows the VAP protocol for end-product to fair labor practices. If we become aware of
3TG Cobalt
factories. Our People Solutions team conducts a labor broker who does not meet our high
periodic audits of our labor brokers/agents. standards, we terminate the relationship with
100% 94%
that broker.
RBA e-Learning pilot program results during
FY2023 were positive. We continued the program
Critical Minerals
for FY2023 as Phase 2 wherein 80 participants
from 30 suppliers were selected to participate.
In-scope suppliers In-scope suppliers
and Metals
2,495 e-Learning courses were assigned to the
response rate response rate
80 participants, resulting in a 100% completion
rate. Western Digital monitored the RBA VAP
score for each supplier following the completion
Management Approach
of the e-Learning courses. Based on the suppliers
who completed the audits, the e-Learning
GRI 3-3
2022 2022 Other-than-
courses improved their scores on average by
29% compared to their initial audits.
Western Digital maintains a cross-functional Conformant Smelters Conformant Smelters
team of senior staff for our Responsible
Labor Practices Minerals Steering Committee, which oversees 231 4
our Responsible Minerals Program. Our head
We recognize that human rights protections
of Procurement leads this program, and the
vary from country to country, and we pay close
Committee is composed of representatives from
attention to how our manufacturing workforce may
Legal, Procurement, and Quality Management.
be impacted. We strive to ensure they are treated
The team reports to senior leadership on a
with dignity and respect and experience fair,
regular basis and reports the findings of our
respectful, and sustainable working conditions.
compliance efforts to the Audit Committee
of the Board of Directors.
Western Digital’s manufacturing workforce
is predominantly composed of directly hired
Western Digital relies on a variety of raw
employees whom we employ and manage
and subsidiary materials — including 3TG
ourselves. This gives us direct control over
or “conflict minerals” — as key inputs to our
their working conditions, so we can ensure
finished products. We indirectly source 3TG
that they are treated with dignity and respect
from mines, smelters, or refiners and, in most
and experience fair and sustainable working
cases, are several steps removed from these
conditions. We work closely and carefully with
market participants in the supply chain, making
the labor brokers that source our manufacturing
transparency a challenge. Long before the
employees in Malaysia (the only location
adoption of the United States Securities and
where we source employees from outside the
Exchange Commission’s (SEC) Conflict Minerals
country) and we prohibit labor brokers and their
Rule, we began working with our suppliers to
agents from collecting recruitment fees from
verify responsible sourcing of 3TG.
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 43
Industry Partnerships
3TG Smelter Status 2021 2022
We are committed to supporting responsible Western Digital actively participates in the
sourcing of conflict minerals and their derivatives, RBA’s Responsible Mineral Initiative (RMI), Conformant1 240 231
including cobalt and other minerals from the allowing us to use best practices in responsible
Active2 5 3
Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) region minerals sourcing:
and other Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Non-Conformant3 0 1
Areas (CAHRAs). Our team outlines responsible • Collaborate with customers, suppliers, and
industry working groups on a regular basis, Total 245 235
sourcing practices, which are reviewed
including the Due Diligence Practices Team,
regularly. As part of our ongoing commitment
COBALT SMELTER STATUS 2021 2022
Smelter Engagement Team, Responsible
to transparency, we added cobalt to our policy
Minerals Initiative Plenary Call, and RMI
and program, and we continually endeavor to Active2 16 5
Material Insight User Group, using a platform
practice responsible sourcing from the DRC
to study and research prioritizing minerals Conformant1 21 48
region and other CAHRAs. This policy, updated
in the supply chain. We share best practices
in March 2021, demonstrates Western Digital’s
Due Diligence in Progress4 66 41
related to methodology and training to support
expectations of our suppliers:
smelter and refiner adaptations. 1 Smelter audited per 3rd-party-recognized program
• Responsibly supply 3TG and cobalt that are 2 Smelter engaged in 3rd-party audit program but not yet conformant
• Gain access to relevant data and tools,
“DRC-conformant” to Western Digital. 3 Does not conform to the Responsible Minerals Initiative’s Responsible Minerals Assurance Process or cross-recognized program
including the Country Risk Map, Reasonable
4 Smelters in various conditions
• Ensure that any 3TG supplied to Western Country of Origin Inquiry (RCOI) data, smelter
Digital are from recycled or scrap sources or database, and risk readiness assessment.
do not finance armed groups in the DRC region
• Conduct ongoing due diligence and stay
and do not contribute to child labor, human
up-to-date on smelter status changes, industry
rights abuses, or environmental pollution.
trends, and key insights.
• Responsibly source all minerals,
• Use RMI’s e-Learning academy to provide
including cobalt, from the DRC region
training internally to employees and externally
and other CAHRAs.
to suppliers.
• Require their own suppliers to adopt
• Perform internal study with a cross functional
similar policies.
team to assess other metals used in our
products besides 3TG and cobalt.
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 44
Responsible Minerals Risk Identify Risks 2. Cobalt Report Template (CRT) – Facilitates the The CMRT, CRT and Country Risk Map Tool
transfer of information through the supply chain together allow us to map our smelters and
Mitigation Program To identify risks in our supply chain, we use three
regarding cobalt country of origin and smelters suppliers and determine which sourcing practices
main resources from the RMI:
SASB TC-HW-440a.1, TC-SC-440a.1 and refiners used; we require all in-scope will be evaluated with RCOI data. Our approach
1. Conflict Minerals Reporting Template (CMRT) – suppliers to complete and submit the CRT. includes several key components:
Western Digital’s Responsible Minerals Risk Facilitates the transfer of information through
Mitigation Program involves a five-step due the supply chain regarding mineral country 3. Country Risk Map Tool – Provides a framework • Developing a risk management plan that
and guidance to monitor high-risk suppliers includes due diligence reviews of relevant
diligence process aligned with the Organization of origin and smelters and refiners used; we
and smelters and allows our program manager suppliers and smelters or refiners
for Economic Co-operation and Development require all in-scope suppliers to complete and
to develop a country risk indicator to monitor
(OECD) Guidance. submit the CMRT.
• Using tools available for RMI members to
risk levels by country with an 80% and above
review the smelters or refiners reported by
confidence level.
our suppliers and assess the quality of the
responses in their CMRTs
• Incorporating the information and the result
of this assessment into supplier risk profiles
in our supply chain base
• Reviewing risk profiles to mitigate any risks
to suppliers or smelters.
• Informing Procurement of the high-risk
suppliers and developing an action plan
to mitigate the risk
• Working with suppliers to mitigate the risk
for identified high-risk smelters, via direct
outreach with the smelter or indirectly via
collaborating with customers or engaging
Strong Company Identify & Assess Design & Implement Support Independent Report Annually with industry-level working groups
Management System Supply Chain Risks Strategy to Respond Third-Party Audits on Supply Chain
to Identified Risks of Smelter/Refiner Due Diligence Conduct Supplier Risk Assessment
Due Diligence
We conduct risk assessments based on multiple
factors, including smelter or refiner certification
status, “red flags” identified and the supplier
relationship. Western Digital escalates suppliers in
higher-risk categories in accordance with our risk
mitigation procedures. We use a formal tracking
mechanism to track the supplier risk assessment
and the risk mitigation activities performed.
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 45
Execute Risk Mitigation Activities
Risk Mitigation Reference Request or Inquiry Condition Intended Effect
We execute appropriate risk mitigation actions to
build awareness and capacity to reach our goal
1. Inquiry related to Critical Minerals To align Western Digital’s Responsible Minerals Policy and expectations
of conflict-free sourcing. The table below outlines
different actions in order of severity.
2. Follow up + adding in subsidiary procurement/commodity manager To support the urgency of the request
Western Digital is subject to performance 3. Escalate to higher management (suppliers and internal) To support the urgency of the request
assessments from our customers related to
4. Formal complaint To demonstrate Western Digital’s commitment to adhering to the responsible
our sourcing practices. Multiple customers
minerals initiative
have consistently acknowledged our excellent
performance, citing numerous key indicators 5. Temporary reduction or suspension of trade To encourage suppliers to source responsibly and mitigate high risk identified
within supply chain
such as energy efficiency, emissions reduction,
conflict-free smelters, voluntary sustainability
reporting and RBA audit compliance.
Below is a summary of our conflict minerals risks in 2022.
For more detailed information on our
Responsible Minerals Program measures,
including commitments and steps taken to High Risk1 High Risk1 Medium Risk Medium Risk Medium Risk Low Risk Risk Yet To Total
mitigate the risk that the 3TG in our products Be Determined Smelters
Smelter Status – Smelter Status – Smelter Status – Smelter Status – Smelter Smelter Status –
benefits armed groups, please see our Conformant Active Conformant Active in various Conformant Smelter Status –
2022 SEC-filed Conflict Minerals Report. conditions Conformant
114 0 10 3 1 106 1 235
Conformant Active Conformant Active Non-Conformant Conformant Conformant
smelters smelters smelters smelters smelter smelters smelter
1 Possible Country of Origin from High Risk, Covered Country and/or DRC
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 46
Smelter Status by Metals1
Western Digital Update Industry Update
as of December 2022 as of December 2022
Tin (SN) Tin (SN)
95% 78%
Tantalum (TA) Tantalum (TA)
100% 94%
Tungsten (W) Tungsten (W)
100% 74%
Gold (AU) Gold (AU)
99.9% 61%
1 This chart compares the conformance status of the smelters in Western Digital’s supply chain to the broader industry smelter conformance status
by metal type.
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 47
Key Metrics
Responsible Minerals Initiative
GRI 414-2
e-Learning Pilot
We launched an RMI-focused e-Learning Following participation in the e-Learning pilot, all In calendar year 2022, we audited 100% of on five metrics that are key to the products and
pilot to support capacity building focused on suppliers closed the relevant non-conformances. our in-scope suppliers for conflict minerals. services provided to the company — cost, quality,
responsible minerals. We invited 11 suppliers as Based on these positive results, we plan to We established that 0% of those suppliers business, technology and innovation, and ESG
pilot participants, which included suppliers that expand this approach moving forward to continue used smelters of concern. By the end of 2022, sustainability and risk. The ESG component
received non-conformances from an RBA VAP to support supplier capacity building regarding 96% of the in-scope suppliers successfully includes consideration of product environmental
audit at the supplier facility. responsible mineral sourcing. reported sourcing from conformant smelters. compliance, RBA compliance, business continuity
The remaining 4% reported the active smelter plans, and responsible minerals program
These non-conformances resulted from: and various condition smelter. Additionally, we management. In FY2023, we continued to raise
directly or indirectly engaged with 22 smelters the bar by advancing performance criteria to
• Supplier capability in handling a out of 235 total in our supply chain to participate drive improvement throughout our supply chain.
Western Digital request
in a Responsible Mineral Assurance Process For example, we aligned our responsible minerals
(RMAP) Program. program with OECD guidance to include cobalt
• Responsible Sourcing Score shows supplier
and other minerals such as mica, and also
is required to build its knowledge
Western Digital has a performance measure expanded the scope of conflict-affected and
• Non-conformance issued by third-party in place to progressively monitor supplier high-risk areas.
auditor during RBA VAP audit
practices. The performance measure is based
SASB TC-HW-430a.1, TC-HW-430a.2
RMI e-Learning Program FY2022 Suppliers Assessed Using RBA Validated FY2021 FY2022 FY2023
Assessment Program1
COMMODITY SELECTION COMPLETED
Percentage of all Tier 1 supplier facilities audited in the 62% 64% 67%
Electronics 20 20 RBA Validated Assessment Program or equivalent2
Head & Media 4 4 Percentage of high-risk Tier 1 supplier facilities audited in 0% 0% 0%
the RBA Validated Assessment Program or equivalent
Mechanical 3 3
Tier 1 suppliers’ non-conformance rate with the 8% 7% 7%
Total 27 27
RBA Validated Assessment Program or equivalent
Percentage 100%
Tier 1 suppliers’ associated corrective action rate 93% 97% 91%
for priority non-conformances
Tier 1 suppliers’ associated corrective action rate 84% 85% 85%
for other non-conformances3
1 Percentages are based on facility count.
2 Total supplier facilities for FY2022–FY2023 encompass 90% of direct material spend and single/sole source and strategic suppliers.
3 “Other Non-Conformance” refers to major and minor findings.
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 48
Supply Chain CDP Engagement
Supply Chain CDP
Starting in FY2020, we asked our supply partners
to disclose climate and water-related information Climate Change 2023
to CDP, formerly known as the Carbon Disclosure
Project. These disclosures help us and our
Response rate from 170+ Annual monetary savings by suppliers Suppliers reporting
supply partners measure and understand our
in-scope suppliers (in US dollars) active targets
environmental impact and take actions to build
a more sustainable supply chain. We provide
CDP training for prior and first-time supplier 96% $1,300M+ 70%
respondents on an annual basis. The trainings are
recorded and available to suppliers that cannot
attend at the time of the meeting. 103 participants
from 78 suppliers attended these training sessions
on April 11, 2023. Engaging their own suppliers Suppliers with verified Annual CO e savings by suppliers
2
to CDP Climate Scope 1 and 2 (in million metric tons)
Western Digital is also actively encouraging
suppliers to set science-based targets. In FY2023,
52% 46% 32Mmt
Western Digital joined over 740 financial
institutions and multinational firms with $136
trillion in assets and spending power in support
of the CDP Science-Based Targets Campaign.
The campaign aims to incentivize the world’s
highest-impact companies to set SBTs and
Water Security 2023
accelerate the decarbonization of investment
and lending portfolios, thereby creating a positive
Response rate from 160+ Suppliers reporting Suppliers reporting
ambition loop between investors and companies.
in-scope suppliers active targets water accounting
Furthermore, during the April supply partners
CDP training, we encouraged participants to
set SBTs. 95% 80% 71%
We initially invited over 160+ in-scope suppliers
to provide responses to both questionnaires, of
which 96% and 95% participated for climate and
water, respectively. In-scope suppliers expanded
Have documented Suppliers engaging their own suppliers
with the addition of Capital Equipment suppliers
water-related policy for CDP Water as of 2021 CDP Disclosure
from Indirect Materials.
63% 33%
Learn more about the CDP Science-Based
Targets Campaign here.
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 49
Supply Chain Resiliency
Why it Matters Analytics-Driven Predictive
Procurement Process
Threats to supply chains pose serious
consequences to a company like ours —
In FY2023, we continued our efforts to enhance
and the consequences of potential disruptions
our supply chain approach and process to
are heightened by the global nature of our
improve resiliency and balance the focus on
value chain. To position our business for
social, economic and environmental factors
future success, we are working to build
within Western Digital’s supply base. Our
more sustainable, resilient supply chains by
supply chain is large and complex. We rely on
implementing analytics-driven procurement
hundreds of direct (and thousands of indirect)
processes and widening our supply base by
suppliers to create our products.
qualifying additional suppliers. By taking these
steps now, we are protecting our business
We developed and deployed unique and
from supply chain disruptions and creating
exclusive advanced predictive capabilities
more widespread business opportunities.
that enable us to predict and detect probable
risk and disruptions. Armed with data about
suppliers’ and their suppliers’ locations, past
performance and potential risk factors, we
were able to use artificial intelligence, machine
learning and natural language processing
capabilities to monitor and consider alternate
suppliers, detect potential disruptions, and
mitigate risks.
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 50
General Disclosures
IN THIS SECTION:
Workforce, Workplace
Inclusion 51
Employee Attraction, Retention and Engagement 54
and Community
Health and Safety 57
Inclusion
between the business, HR, and our Employee • Achieved the following diversity representation: In the United States, we also review pay equity
Resource Groups. Inclusion is at the center of Women represented 26% of our management across Race/Ethnicity groups. We found that
everything we do, and it underpins our efforts positions and 23% of our technical staff. non-White employees were paid 100.1 cents on
around Talent Attraction, Development, and Members of Asian, Black/African American, every dollar earned by White employees. After
Management Approach
Engagement. We’re determined to develop a Hispanic/Latino, or other racially or ethnically identifying these gaps, we made pay adjustments
culture where all the employees at Western Digital diverse communities, represented 62% of our to close them. In FY2024, we plan to further
GRI 3-3
feel they truly belong. U.S. management positions. our pay equity efforts by engaging in a living
wage analysis.
Western Digital believes that our employees
• Continued the self-identification initiative
To drive the next phase of efforts, our HR leader
are our most valuable resource. The people of
launched in the previous year by inviting • Continued our skills-based screening to hire
took on expanded responsibilities as Chief People
Western Digital — and their myriad of talent
new hires to share more about who they are employees based on capabilities and potential
& Inclusion Officer and established the Office of
and experiences — give us our competitive
across dimensions of gender, gender identity, as well as our anonymous hiring pilot to identify
Inclusion to promote diversity and equity. She
edge. We’re convinced that the fusion of diverse
veterans and disabilities. Participation was and remove any potential for bias from our hiring
will continue to partner closely with the CEO
perspectives and an inclusive and equitable
optional, data was protected, and the results process for interns.
and report progress on efforts to the Board.
culture results in greater innovation and better
were anonymized. We believe an in-depth
business outcomes. • Continued to deliver unconscious bias training
understanding of our employee population will
Western Digital applies its efforts globally, to leaders, equipping them to lead inclusively
enable us to better engage and retain our talent.
and the Office of Inclusion communicates our and identify unconscious bias.
We know we’re at our absolute best when we
leverage our workforce of approximately 53,000 initiatives to representatives at our international • To help ensure our pay practices are fair and
• Piloted a four-week self-advocacy development
sites and receives updates on regional progress. equitable, we conduct an annual pay equity
employees in 38 countries around the world. From
program with We.Elevate, Western Digital’s Black
Additionally, each country-specific employee assessment to promote equal pay for equal
our factories in Thailand to our R&D centers in
Professionals Network.
handbook discusses how Western Digital is work for men and women. As part of this
Israel and our engineering sites in Silicon Valley, we
are committed to an inclusive environment where working to promote inclusion. review, we analyze current pay and account • Continued inclusive leadership training in our
for various non-discriminatory factors, such Leader Essentials program for all people managers.
every individual can thrive through a sense of
See our key highlights from FY2023: as seniority, experience, skills, performance,
belonging, respect and contribution. These beliefs
• Continued to partner with our Employee Resource
location, track and hiring, and promotion dates.
are anchored in our core value: “We All Belong.”
Groups to direct efforts in our Global Giving and
• Disclosed gender pay equity results. In FY2023, we expanded our assessment to
Doing Equality pillar.
cover 100% of our employee population globally.
Western Digital looks at inclusion as a multi-year • Recognized for the fourth consecutive year
The review determined that women were paid
journey realized through deep partnerships by Women’s Choice Award as a Best Company
99.2 cents for every dollar earned by men.
for Millennials.
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 51
Talent Attraction for women to share their perspectives on work-life Our ERGs are open to all employees and provide Awards and Recognition
balance, development, and Cultural and Heritage opportunities to build relationships and foster
To attract diverse talent globally, we connect
Month company highlights. a sense of belonging, as well as to support our
GRI 3-3
with our strategic sourcing partners as well
business in recruiting talent, driving awareness,
as diversity-focused conferences and forums.
mentoring under-represented youth in our
Implementing Our Anti-Harassment
Additionally, we have been piloting skills-based Women’s Choice Award for
communities and delivering innovative product
sourcing strategies and intend to expand them and Discrimination Policy suggestions. This year, Global Giving and Doing Best Companies for Women,
globally. We continue to expand our connections
Western Digital’s Global Anti-Harassment provided corporate grants to organizations Best Companies for Millennials
with universities who attract and support a
selected by our ERGs to support equality in their
and Discrimination Policy explicitly prohibits and Best Companies for Diversity
diverse student body.
communities of interest. We celebrate, educate,
harassment in the workplace from any employee,
and provide uplifting experiences to more than In 2023, the Women’s Choice Award once again
customer, vendor, supplier, business partner,
Talent Development or third party. The policy provides numerous 500 participants within a year. recognized Western Digital among its Best
Companies for Women, Best Companies for
avenues to report instances of harassment and
In addition to the development programs and
DEI is at the center of our guiding principle — Millennials, and Best Companies for Diversity.
discrimination and allows for appropriate action to
initiatives that we provide to all of our employees,
“Encourage everyone to be their best selves both Our focus on investing and helping millennials
be taken. Relevant Western Digital employees are
we also look to provide targeted development
in personal and professional lives.” and women grow professionally to advance their
required to participate in online harassment and
to address specific needs for our women and
careers while also catering to their lifestyles led to
discrimination training to support the policy.
underrepresented groups. Examples include
Our monthly experiences include financial these awards. Women’s Choice Award recognizes
She Invents, a program that aims to increase the
education and modeling series, WDC branding companies based on a gathering of external
number of women submitting for patents, and, Employee Resource Groups
and marketing products that support women, data from the general population, analyzing over
“I am Remarkable”, ERG-led speaker series and
as well as updates from Executive Leadership, 300,000 sources of data — including Fortune
Our Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) help
workshops run by Women’s Impact Network.
and members of the World Economic Forum. 300 Companies, Survey Monkey, Working
create an inclusive culture that embraces the
The highlight of WHAM – Bay Area is the Career Mothers Best Place to Work reports, Glassdoor,
uniqueness of our employees. We have several
Inclusive Culture and Engagement ERG communities, focusing on women, LGBTQ+, Journey sharing by team members from all annual reports, and press releases. We also
levels where we learn from success, perceived engage employees by taking actions to promote
racial and ethnic minorities, military, and people
Our final pillar, Inclusive Culture and Engagement
failures that led to other opportunities, and key and ground them in our core values and beliefs as
with disabilities. In FY2023, we introduced
is focused on creating an inclusive, high-trust
life lessons that continue to guide our team a company, so that we are conducting business in
We.Represent for Black, Asian and other minority
environment where everyone can feel valued,
members. This has inspired many attendees and an ethical way. As a result of this focus, in 2023,
colleagues in EMEA to foster community and
respected and heard. We’re laying this foundation
given them the courage to pursue their dreams. we were named one of the World’s Most Ethical
awareness of ethnic diversity throughout
through our Leadership Capability investments,
Companies by Ethisphere Institute for the fifth
the company.
Managing Bias trainings and the initiatives that
We also provide upskilling opportunities such consecutive year.
our Employee Resource Groups are driving. These
as technical workshops where we disassemble
programs range from LGBTQ+ Allyship workshops,
Hard Disk Drives and learn how different parts
to our ‘In Real Life’ series, which provides space
function, design thinking, Microsoft applications,
and many more!
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 52
Key Metrics
GRI 405-1, SASB TC-HW-330a.1 GRI 405-1, SASB TC-HW-330a.1
Gender Representation of Global Employees1 Age Representation of Global Employees1
FY2021 FEMALE MALE OTHER FY2021 UNDER 30 30–50 50+
Management 25.7% 74.3% 0.0% Management 0.9% 66.7% 32.4%
Technical staff 22.3% 77.7% 0.0% Technical staff 22.1% 58.9% 19.0%
All other employees 69.3% 31.7% 0.0% All other employees 32.3% 61.8% 6.0%
Factory employees2 69.8% 30.2% 0.0% Factory employees2 33.8% 61.5% 4.7%
Non-factory employees 51.8% 48.2% 0.1% Non-factory employees 15.2% 64.3% 20.5%
FY2022 FEMALE MALE OTHER FY2022 UNDER 30 30–50 50+
Management 25.7% 74.3% 0.0% Management 1.1% 66.0% 32.8%
Technical staff 23.1% 76.9% 0.0% Technical staff 24.0% 56.8% 19.1%
All other employees 66.8% 33.2% 0.0% All other employees 29.6% 63.6% 6.8%
Factory employees2 68.4% 31.6% 0.0% Factory employees2 31.0% 63.9% 5.1%
Non-factory employees 51.1% 48.8% 0.0% Non-factory employees 15.6% 60.5% 23.8%
FY2023 FEMALE MALE OTHER FY2023 UNDER 30 30–50 50+
Management 26.0% 74.0% 0.0% Management 0.9% 64.6% 34.6%
Technical staff 23.4% 76.6% 0.0% Technical staff 22.7% 58.2% 19.1%
All other employees 64.5% 35.5% 0.0% All other employees 24.7% 67.7% 7.6%
Factory employees2 66.1% 33.9% 0.0% Factory employees2 25.9% 68.5% 5.6%
Non-factory employees 51.5% 48.5% 0.0% Non-factory employees 14.9% 61.1% 24.0%
1 Data is based on the headcount at the end of the indicated fiscal year. Gender data is based on self-identification. 1 Data is based on the headcount at the end of the indicated fiscal year.
2 For purposes of this report, “factory employees” are those working in our factory setting that directly work on product assembly; all remaining employees are 2 For purposes of this report, “factory employees” are those working in our factory setting that directly work on product assembly; all remaining employees are
considered professional or managerial. considered professional or managerial.
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 53
GRI 405-1, TC-HW-330a.1 GRI 405-1
Racial/Ethnic Group Representation of United States Employees1 Board Diversity FY2021 FY2022 FY2023
FY2021 ASIAN BLACK OR HISPANIC WHITE OTHER2 By Gender Male 50.0% 55.6% 66.7%
AFRICAN AMERICAN OR LATINO
Female 50.0% 44.4% 33.3%
Management 49.7% 1.1% 4.5% 42.4% 2.3%
By Age Under 30 0.0% 0.0% 0.0%
Technical staff 58.3% 1.0% 3.4% 35.9% 1.4%
30–50 12.5% 0.0% 11.1%
All other employees 56.2% 2.6% 13.1% 23.8% 4.3%
50+ 87.5% 100.0% 88.9%
Factory employees3 62.6% 2.8% 16.2% 13.5% 4.9%
Non-factory employees 48.8% 2.2% 9.6% 35.8% 3.6%
Employee Attraction,
FY2022 ASIAN BLACK OR HISPANIC WHITE OTHER2
AFRICAN AMERICAN OR LATINO
Retention and Engagement
Management 51.5% 1.2% 4.7% 39.8% 2.7%
Technical staff 57.3% 1.1% 3.8% 35.9% 1.8%
All other employees 56.1% 2.5% 13.6% 22.6% 5.2% Management Approach
Factory employees3 62.6% 3.1% 16.9% 11.4% 6.0% GRI 3-3
Non-factory employees 50.0% 2.0% 10.4% 33.2% 4.3%
At Western Digital, our employees drive our Our Board of Directors is actively involved in
FY2023 ASIAN BLACK OR HISPANIC WHITE OTHER2 success and help shape the future. To continue overseeing Western Digital’s workforce retention
AFRICAN AMERICAN OR LATINO
leading the data storage industry, we rely on and engagement. Our Compensation and
highly skilled individuals to drive our culture of Talent Committee reviews our human capital
Management 52.7% 1.3% 4.6% 38.5% 2.9%
innovation. We strive to create an environment management policies and programs covering
Technical staff 58.8% 1.1% 4.0% 34.2% 1.9% where employees feel connected and committed company culture, talent development, employee
to Western Digital’s mission and vision. retention, and diversity and inclusion. Our Chief
All other employees 56.9% 2.4% 13.4% 21.6% 5.7%
People & Inclusion Officer provides updates to
Our Human Resources function is a strategic the Board regarding retention strategy, talent
Factory employees3 64.1% 2.8% 16.5% 10.1% 6.6%
part of our company, responsible for creating management, succession planning and diversity.
Non-factory employees 50.3% 2.1% 10.6% 32.1% 5.0% a strong workforce culture and differentiating
Western Digital as an employer of choice. Our
1 Data is based on the headcount at the end of the indicated fiscal year.
business strategy planning process incorporates
2 Other includes the following classifications: Native American or Alaska Native, Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander, and “Two or More Races.”
talent needs and assesses sustainable and
3 For purposes of this report, “factory employees” are those working in our factory setting that directly work on product assembly; all remaining employees
scalable workforce strategies.
are considered professional or managerial.
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 54
GRI 102-8
Attraction and Retention
Information on Employees and Other Workers1 Western Digital’s Talent Acquisition, Talent • Paid time off
Development and Human Resources Business
• Maternity, paternity, and/or parental leave
FY2021 FULL-TIME EMPLOYEES PART-TIME EMPLOYEES REGULAR EMPLOYEES Partner teams collaborate with our business
leaders to attract and retain diverse, top talent • Retirement provision
Gender2 Female 37,955 30 37,985
for all areas of the business. Our global enterprise
• Stock ownership
employment and recruitment brand highlights
Male 27,436 39 27,475
Western Digital employees to showcase why • Tuition reimbursement
Other 8 0 8 Western Digital is a great place to grow one’s
• Employee Assistance Program
career. Additionally, our partnerships around the
Region United States 7,892 34 7,926
globe continue to be a key strategic initiative for
We benchmark our compensation and benefits
Asia 56,255 22 56,277 future talent pools, including growing our diverse
programs annually using market data from
candidate pipeline.
reputable third-party consultants. We also conduct
Other 1,252 13 1,265
internal focus groups and employee surveys to
See the Inclusion section of this report for
FY2022 FULL-TIME EMPLOYEES PART-TIME EMPLOYEES REGULAR EMPLOYEES inform programs and identify opportunities.
more information.
Gender2 Female 36,541 31 36,572
Engagement
Male 28,064 40 28,104 Turnover rates indicate the health of our
workforce culture, and we monitor these metrics Listening is a keystone to our people strategy,
Other 3 0 3
carefully for insights into employee uncertainty or and collecting insights directly from our people
dissatisfaction. Additionally, turnover rates affect helps us to determine ways in which we can drive
Region United States 7,721 27 7,748
Western Digital’s financial performance. employee engagement. Employee engagement is
Asia 55,588 31 55,619 a result of many employee experience elements,
GRI 401-2 with people leaders playing a critical role in
Other 1,299 13 1,312
creating an environment where our people feel
FY2023 FULL-TIME EMPLOYEES PART-TIME EMPLOYEES REGULAR EMPLOYEES To retain top talent, Western Digital offers eligible heard, appreciated, and developed. The survey
employees a competitive and comprehensive helps leaders take action on insights gathered
Gender2 Female 28,615 29 28,644
compensation package. In each country, Western from their people. Insights can also help inform
Digital offers competitive benefits, which typically company-driven solutions.
Male 24,642 40 24,682
include the following:
Other 2 0 2
• Life insurance
Region United States 6,971 20 6,991
• Health care
Asia 45,091 34 45,125
• Disability and invalidity coverage
Other 1,197 15 1,212
1 Data is based on Western Digital’s non-contingent headcount at the end of the indicated fiscal year.
2 Gender data is based on self-identification.
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 55
Learning and Development We are investing in leadership development
Employee Attraction, Retention, FY2021 FY2022 FY2023
through our flagship program Leader Essentials,
and Engagement
GRI 404-2 to help people at all levels cultivate skills such as
effective communication, creating an inclusive
EMPLOYEE TURNOVER # RATE2 # RATE2 # RATE2
We are on a multi-year journey to deliver a culture, and building effective relationships.
world-class experience for our employees at We also continue to develop the next generation Voluntary turnover Under 30 3,766 20.0% 5,207 31.2% 3,803 28.2%
by age group
Western Digital. By helping employees realize of talent with our New College Grad program.
30–50 2,352 5.8% 3,839 9.3% 3,524 9.2%
great moments in their careers, we make our
company an exceptional place to work. We foster GRI 404-3 50+ 237 3.8% 402 5.6% 448 6.2%
an environment of continuous learning through
Involuntary turnover Under 30 1,175 6.2% 1,383 8.3% 774 5.7%
initiatives like our annual Career Month with All manufacturing employees receive
by age group
virtual events, on-demand learning, and resources performance assessments based on specific
30–50 1,523 3.8% 1,213 2.9% 4,021 10.5%
to help employees create a Career Success manufacturing tasks. The remainder of the
Statement and Development Map to chart their organization, comprising the technical and 50+ 298 4.8% 293 4.1% 1,297 18.1%
career journey and track their progress. professional employee population, receives
Voluntary turnover Male 2,479 9.1% 3,847 13.8% 3,168 12.0%
quarterly check-in meetings and annual reviews.
by gender
Female 3,876 10.2% 5,599 15.0% 4,607 14.1%
Involuntary turnover Male 659 2.4% 810 2.9% 1,849 7.0%
GRI 401-1
by gender
Female 2,336 6.2% 2,078 5.6% 4,242 13.0%
Employee Attraction, Retention, FY2021 FY2022 FY2023
Other — — — — 1 40.0%
and Engagement
Voluntary turnover United States 610 7.7% 1,177 15.0% 833 11.3%
by region
EMPLOYEE HIRES # RATE1 # RATE1 # RATE1
Asia 5,665 10.1% 8,145 14.6% 6,851 13.6%
Hires by age group Under 30 6,774 36.0% 7,497 44.9% 1,542 11.4%
Other 80 6.3% 126 9.8% 91 7.2%
30–50 2,642 6.6% 3,661 8.9% 844 2.2%
Involuntary turnover United States 236 3.0% 262 3.3% 517 7.0%
by region
50+ 187 3.0% 265 3.7% 113 1.6%
Asia 2,700 4.8% 2,589 4.6% 5,477 10.9%
Hires by gender Male 3,372 12.3% 5,210 18.8% 1,579 6.0%
Other 60 4.7% 38 3.0% 98 7.8%
Female 6,229 16.4% 6,213 16.7% 920 2.8%
Total Voluntary Employee Turnover 5,380 8.4% 9,448 14.5% 7,775 13.2%
Hires by region United States 734 9.2% 1,147 14.6% 559 1.2%
Total Involuntary Employee Turnover 5,995 9.4% 2,889 4.4% 6,092 10.3%
Asia 8,736 15.6% 10,064 18.0% 1,851 3.7%
1 Hire rate is calculated as the total number of hires divided by the average headcount over the time period. Employees without gender or birthdate in the source
Other 133 10.5% 212 16.5% 89 7.0% data are included in the total only and not in age, gender and region breakouts.
2 Turnover rate is calculated as the total number of separations/terminations (voluntary and involuntary) divided by the average headcount over the time period.
Total Employee Hires 9,603 14.7% 11,432 17.6% 2,499 4.2% Employees without gender or birthdate in the source data are included in the total only and not in age, gender and region breakouts.
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 56
Health and Safety
Policies
Western Digital’s IMS Policy addresses
Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) in support
Why it Matters
of our Integrated Management System (IMS).
Additionally, we require all employees to adhere
GRI 3-3
to Western Digital’s Global Code of Conduct,
which includes the expectation to follow site
Health and safety are foundational to
safety rules, use necessary safety equipment,
Western Digital’s business. We take employee,
and report actual or potential safety hazards.
contractor, and visitor health and safety
seriously because we care about our people
and understand how thoroughly we depend Occupational Health and
on each other. We believe that safety is Safety Management System
everyone’s business and aim to create a
GRI 403-1
culture that supports best-in-class health and
You Matter Program For example, in FY2023:
safety workplace standards and processes.
Our certified OHS Management System is part
We seek to empower employees to be their best This includes safety education, safe working
• 100% of our employees had access to free
of our company-wide IMS and applies to all
selves and live up to their full potential — both in conditions, and employee wellness and
professional counseling through our global
operations, all employees, and anyone acting on
their career and within their communities. When health resources.
employee assistance program (EAP). Over 7.4%
our behalf globally (including contractors).
we equip employees to thrive, we enable our team
of our employees engaged with the services.
to reach its fullest potential. Through Western
Management Approach
Digital’s You Matter program, we invest in the • Our Promoting Mental Well-Being training GRI 403-5
is embedded into the curriculum for our
well-being of our diverse employee population.
GRI 3-3
Leader Essential training. Each site’s OHS Management Program
The program has four pillars:
identifies job-specific and task-specific training
• We reopened on-site fitness centers in All Western Digital employees are responsible for
• Health – focusing on prevention and to employees and meets Western Digital’s
16 locations. maintaining a safe and healthy work environment.
resources for managing and improving objectives by:
We expect every manager to establish and
overall physical health. • 85% of our employees have access to
reinforce our health and safety culture through
on-site health clinics that provide primary • Ensuring all workers understand the hazards
• Financial – supporting employees in meeting three commitments: they may be exposed to and how to prevent
care, immediate care, and chronic disease
current and future financial obligations.
harm to workers and the environment.
management. Some of our clinics also
• Implementing and enforcing Western Digital’s
• Emotional – offering employee resources to include behavioral health, laboratory services, Environmental, Health, Safety, and Security • Ensuring on-time periodic worker training
support their mental and emotional wellness. specialist services, and dental services.
(EHS&S) Program requirements and leading updates as required within specific programs.
by personal example
• Lifestyle – helping employees create and • 99% of our employees globally have access • Ensuring all managers and workers understand
sustain healthy habits to fuel everyday life. to annual health screening and flu shots
• Encouraging worker involvement in the structure their obligations to provide a safe, healthful
either through their insurance, flexible
and implementation of EHS&S Programs and compliant work environment.
The program is implemented on a global scale spending account, or delivered on-site.
so that initiatives can have a global reach, while Campaigns to promote preventative health • Communicating and assigning responsibility • Ensuring timely, appropriate responses when
for EHS&S Program implementation and workers notify management about conditions
also being tailored to local contexts. Activations screening and flu vaccines take place each
evaluating performance against Health and that appear unsafe or hazardous.
occur through a combination of solutions, year in the fall.
Safety expectations
on-site services, initiatives, training, classes,
and campaign events.
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 57
Western Digital trains our Emergency Response regularly to discuss hazards observed in their
Recordable and Lost Time Rates Teams (ERTs) to respond to an incident such work areas and implement preventative actions.
as a fire, medical crisis, or earthquake to Safety committee members work with health and
minimize its impact. ERTs assist in developing safety personnel to keep track of injuries and
plans to organize an effective response and illnesses, assess their root causes and recommend
minimize injury and damage. Western Digital’s corrective actions to avoid future recurrences.
global recordable and lost time injury and illness Committee members also conduct periodic facility
incident rates consistently remain lower than inspections and organize safety activities.
0.04%
North American Industry Classification System
(NAICS) industry averages.
Hazard Identification,
Western Digital
0.04%
Lost Time Rate Risk and Opportunity Assessment,
Health and Safety Standards
and Control Implementation
0.08%
All Western Digital factories are certified to the
GRI 403-2
Occupational Health and Safety Management
System. WD has completely transitioned from
Our IMS involves a two-tiered approach for
the OHSAS 18001 standard to the ISO 45001
identifying hazards and assessing risks and
NAICS Industry Average standard. In FY2023 all 12 manufacturing sites
0.10% opportunities. At the corporate level, we analyze
Lost Time Rate and the R&D Site in Fujisawa, Japan were
performance trends to identify the top three to
included and recertified to ISO 45001:2018. All
five focus areas globally based on risk levels,
sites passed the recertification with no major
which are determined by severity, likelihood,
non-conformances. All factories have been
and existing control measures. We set overarching
audited to the ISO45001:2018 standard. Western
0.09% procedures we expect sites to follow using the
Digital also conducts both internal and external
hierarchy of controls.
audits to evaluate compliance with applicable
Western Digital
0.09% health and safety laws, regulations, and standards.
Recordable Rate At the facility level, sites reference hazards
identified at the corporate level and customize their
As part of our transition to ISO 45001, Western
0.12% approach based on high-risk areas in the specific
Digital formalized the processes related to
location. Certain sites go beyond this initial level of
consultation and participation of workers.
assessment, further assessing equipment, tools,
Western Digital uses our global IMS to establish
chemicals and processes. Each hazard is scored on
the general corporate requirements and
its level of severity, likelihood, and existing control
NAICS Industry expectations, while sites further define and
0.20% measures to calculate a composite risk rating. We
Average Recordable Rate implement location-appropriate methods for
prioritize risks rated high and immediately seek to
effective engagement with workers on health
mitigate them to a lower level.
0 0.05 0.10 0.15 0.20 0.25 and safety matters to satisfy these requirements.
A common approach is to form safety committees,
All employees have a right to stop work when
documented policies and procedures, and
FY2021 FY2022 FY2023 NAICS 2022 they believe such work could cause injury or
hazard identification training and reporting tools.
illness to themselves or others. All Western Digital
At each worksite, cross-functional teams meet
manufacturing processes have a standard
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 58
Emergency Power Off (EPO) or Emergency Machine user-friendly to EHS staff managers and workers. Location- and geography-specific pandemic
Health and Wellness
Off (EMO) switch if an employee identifies an There has been significant emphasis on response plans are regularly updated and
on-site hazard that can cause imminent danger. supporting each site as they complete internal continuously implemented as the pandemic
GRI 403-3, 403-6
Employees have multiple avenues through which and external IMS audits and ensure that any knowledge and response recommendations evolve.
to report work-related hazards: findings are addressed and shared throughout
Western Digital prioritizes the long-term
the company. As site IMS Programs develop and
Communication and Training health and wellness of our employees by
• Human Resources business partner mature, it will become easier to identify gaps and
continuously improving the quality of our health
challenges common to all sites. GRI 403-4
• Manager and wellness services. Our site management,
with EHS&S support, performs regular evaluations
• EHS representative GRI 403-7 Western Digital communicates with employees
of the work environment to minimize exposures
on general health and safety policies, procedures
• Safety Good Catch submission to chemical, physical, or biological hazards,
Western Digital hires contractors and third parties and instructions through many avenues:
and ergonomic stressors.
• Western Digital’s Ethics Helpline for specific projects or jobs requiring expertise
outside our employees’ skills or based on our • In-person training and web-based training
Western Digital’s manufacturing and development
Our management team also conducts worksite
business strategy. Our OHS planning process
• On-the-job training sites in Asia have in-house medical clinics
analysis on a regular basis by:
includes evaluating and mitigating potential
meeting licensing requirements with certified or
hazards and risks related to a specific job or • Periodic communications on IMS via
licensed healthcare professionals where workers
• Conducting periodic “walk-throughs” of Western Digital’s intranet
project, reviewing the activity area, and checking
can obtain immediate treatment. If work-related
assigned areas, observing worker behaviors,
licenses of all operators. We require employees
and identifying potentially unsafe conditions. • Promotional materials on our internal activities cause injuries, our medical professionals
to complete rigorous driver certifications before
broadcast system, ConnectTV engage the local EHS&S team to investigate and
• Conducting periodic, systematic EHS&S transporting chemicals or waste. correct the root cause and contributing factors.
assessments and ensuring we correct • Internal blogs
Additionally, we contract with occupational health
discrepancies in a timely fashion. In FY2023, all Western Digital sites continued
• Monthly newsletters clinics for sites in the United States that align with
to manage the impacts of the COVID-19
our wellness initiatives and ensure employees
• Ensuring new processes, facilities global pandemic. Global EHS partnered with • Email communications
have convenient access to healthcare. All medical
rearrangements, and equipment receive
other functions in Western Digital to review
professionals working either in on-site clinics or
EHS&S reviews and approval prior to use.
We also communicate with employees on the
pandemic response guidance from the World
contracted clinics meet licensing requirements
topics of emergency preparedness, injury or
• Investigating accidents and “near misses,” Health Organization (WHO), Centers for Disease and all medical clinics meet applicable regulatory
illness prevention, industrial hygiene, physically
identifying and correcting root causes. Prevention and Control (CDC), and relevant
and accreditation requirements.
demanding work, wellness, ergonomics,
occupational and public health agencies, and
• Including results and trends of hazard machine guarding, and living conditions. These
other reliable sources. Western Digital crisis
identification and risk control in the Key Metrics
communications occur during new hire training,
management teams evaluated the pandemic
Management Review process in addition
through ongoing task-specific training, and via
response situation at all our sites globally.
to the worksite analysis. GRI 3-3
regular site communications which vary by site
and the work being performed.
Global EHS continued to focus on improving our Western Digital actively tracks our occupational
GRI 403-8
health and safety culture in FY2023 by improving safety and health performance to evaluate the
on our EHS incident reporting and management effectiveness of our management approach.
FY2021 FY2022 FY2023
software. We increased our catalog of topics We are pleased to report industry-leading
available through online training and worked safety performance.
Workers covered by an OHS 100% 100% 100%
to make the IMS Program clearer and more
Management System
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 59
GRI 403-8 and 403-9
Health and Safety FY2021 FY2022 FY2023 Health and Safety FY2021 FY2022 FY2023
EMPLOYEES # % # % # % Work-related hazards that pose a risk of i. Hazards — including those related to Machine Safety, Chemical
high-consequence injury, including: Contact, Slip/trip/fall, Struck on/by, Ergonomics and Repetitive
#/rate of employee fatalities 0 0% 0 0% 0 0.0% Trauma — are identified through hazard identification and risk
i. how these hazards have been determined;
assessment process, incident investigation process, and internal/
#/rate of high-consequence work-related 4 0.006% 2 0.003% 2 0.004% ii. which of these hazards have caused or external audits and inspections.
injuries (excluding fatalities) — employees contributed to high-consequence injuries
ii. Struck on working surface, fall to same level
during the reporting period;
Employee Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR)1 29 0.04% 28 0.04% 44 0.08%
iii. Actions taken to minimize risks include the following:
iii. actions taken or underway to eliminate
#/rate of recordable work-related injuries 61 0.09% 57 0.09% 65 0.12% these hazards and minimize risks using 1. Design and evaluate workplace to eliminate hazards.
(including fatalities) — employees the hierarchy of controls
2. Design and evaluate workplace and stations to eliminate
repetitive trauma hazards.
Employee Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR)1 61 0.09% 57 0.09% 65 0.12%
3. Create operating procedures and work instructions, provide
Main types of work-related injury — employees Slip/Trip/Fall, Struck/on/by, Machine safety, Material Handling/Ergo control measures to different hazards.
4. Train and communicate workers to understand and identify
Total number of hours worked — employees 131,495,058 131,495,058 106,636,800
hazards and follow control measures to control hazards.
NON-EMPLOYEE WORKERS # % # % # % 5. Conduct periodic inspection/walk-through to monitor the
workplace and verify that it is free from hazards.
#/rate of non-employee worker fatalities 0 0% 0 0% 0 0.0%
6. Take corrective and preventive actions to eliminate the hazards.
#/rate of high-consequence 0 0% 0 0% 0 0.0%
EMPLOYEES # % # % # %
work-related injuries (excluding fatalities)
— non-employee workers
Whether the rates have been calculated based 200,000
#/rate of recordable work-related injuries 6 N/A 10 N/A 0 N/A on 200,000 or 1,000,000 hours worked
(including fatalities) — non-employee workers
Any workers excluded from this disclosure 0 0 0
(and why)
Workers covered by an occupational health 100% 100% 100%
and safety management system2
1 Employee LTIR and TRIR are Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) Standards. Note: Western Digital currently does not track main types of
work-related injury or total number of hours worked for non-employee workers.
2 Western Digital's occupational health and safety management system covers all manufacturing locations.
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 60
General Disclosures IN THIS SECTION:
Global Giving and Doing
STEM Education 61
Hunger Relief 62
Environment 62
Equality 63
STEM Education
Management Approach
GRI 3-3
As a leader in the technology industry, Science, Our talented workforce is also a deep source • Western Digital employees in China have
Making a difference is what we do. We create Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics of knowledge. Leveraging their expertise and been longstanding volunteers in the Volunteer
and facilitate channels for positive impact in the (STEM) education is a priority to Western experience, we serve as mentors to champion and Teaching Program to teach underserved
communities where our employees live and work. Digital. Exposure and access to opportunities encourage underrepresented and underserved elementary school students. The program has
Our Global Giving and Doing initiatives focus on and education in STEM is not always equitable. youth to prepare for careers in STEM, share been recognized by local government officials
four core pillars: STEM Education, Hunger Relief, Through our strategic partnerships with about career paths, and help students cultivate for its community impact.
the Environment, and Equality. In FY2023 we nonprofit organizations and the Western Digital a passion for learning.
• Mathematics Engineering Science Achievement
continued our commitment to support nonprofit Scholarship program, we strive to increase
(MESA) paired 33 Western Digital mentors
and nongovernmental (NGO) partners working access and representation of underrepresented A few highlights include:
with first-generation, underrepresented college
in these imperative cause areas through grant students in the STEM field.
students in the U.S. as they transitioned from
making, paid volunteer time, and volunteer grants. • U.S. Western Digital STEM Scholarships:
academia into the workforce.
We offered 50 scholarships to students from
traditionally underrepresented communities
• Try Engineering Together matched 23
transferring from a community college to a
Western Digital volunteers with a Title 1
university in pursuit of a STEM degree. We
elementary school class to serve as pen pal
look forward to recognizing our first cohort
mentors for an academic year. Mentors helped
of recipients in FY2024.
to develop writing skills through STEM topics.
• We.care Scholarships: We continued to provide • In the U.S., employees packed 5,500 backpacks
financial assistance supporting the educational
and 2600 pencil pouches that were shared
pursuits of the high-achieving dependents of our
with local nonprofit organizations and students
employees. In FY2023, 58 scholarships totaling
attending Title 1 Schools.
$193,000 were awarded across the globe.
Western Digital’s grants and scholarships are
• In our third year of collaboration with QueenB,
provided through the Western Digital Fund,
42 volunteers in Israel working to expand
an advised fund of Silicon Valley Community
exposure to the STEM field taught afterschool
Foundation. To learn more, please visit the page
coding classes in Hebrew and Arabic to
on Western Digital’s corporate website.
underrepresented students.
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 61
Hunger Relief
Our Approach
Among leadership and Western Digital
• In addition to participating in the Global In FY2023, 6,660 of our employees participated
employees around the world, hunger relief and
Hunger Relief Campaign, colleagues in Israel in 41 environmentally focused volunteer events
food insecurity consistently rank as some of
hosted 11 additional volunteer events to supporting environmental preservation and
the most important issues facing communities
support year-round hunger relief efforts in virtual conservation projects. This earned
where we live and work. We focus on alleviating
their community. $196,000 in volunteer grants for our global
the immediate need for food on a local level
partners. Highlights from these events include:
and support organizations such as Rise Against • Post-COVID levels of food insecurity in
Hunger which seek to eradicate hunger on a the U.S. have not waned. More than 1,800
• More than 1,000 colleagues in the U.S.
global level. of our employee volunteers stepped up to
packed 2,400 native seed packets with our
support their communities by harvesting
nonprofit partner Environmental Volunteers
fresh vegetables for local food banks,
Our Approach to help students learn about the importance
distributing food boxes in the community,
of pollinators and how to support a healthy
and packing 2500+ snack kits for children
In FY2023, our employees participated in 48 environment for them.
experiencing homelessness.
volunteer events with nonprofit organizations
• In Malaysia, 1000 seedlings were planted by
focused on alleviating hunger. These efforts
110 volunteers to protect and conserve the
earned $290,000 in volunteer grants to
Environment coastal ecosystem. The seedlings will grow
further the mission of our nonprofit partners.
into mangroves that serve as a nursery for fish
A highlight of this pillar continues to be our
and protect the coast.
annual Global Hunger Relief campaign. After
In concert with minimizing environmental impact
COVID necessitated a two-year shift to virtual • 500+ employees in Thailand came together
through the company’s sustainability initiatives,
events, excitement was high as we returned to in support of Love Wildlife Foundation’s
we’re maximizing collaborative impact through
in-person meal packing events with Rise Against work in wildlife conservation and education.
our philanthropic work. In FY2023, we engaged
Hunger and Latet. Nearly 4,000 employees from To support the flora and fauna of Khao Yai
more employees than ever before in volunteering
around the world joined to make an impact as National Park, volunteers created mineral lick
to restore and protect our planet. As we strive to
one Western Digital. Our cumulative efforts over pits for wildlife. At our offices, volunteers sewed
be a sustainability leader, this work encompasses
the last decade resulted in 10M+ meals being 400 hammocks for slow lorises that were
all facets of the business and workforce. In
provided to communities around the globe! We rescued from illegal wildlife trafficking.
addition to the efforts of our employees, we
recognize hunger looks different in different parts
supported nonprofit and NGO partners with • 244 employee volunteers in Japan teamed
of the world and we took action to combat the
up to remove trash and debris in their local
grants to further their environmental stewardship
problem in various ways:
communities throughout the year.
work including those providing public education
• In Malaysia we partnered with MyKasih on local and global environmental issues, and • In celebration of World Environment Day,
Foundation’s Love My Neighborhood Program relief efforts in times of natural disaster.
150 volunteers in the Philippines planted
to support 60 families in need with a cashless
2,250 saplings at Barangay Castañas, Sariaya
food card (EBT) to purchase food items.
Quezon. In the future these will grow into a
natural barrier to protect the land and sustain
a clean water system.
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 62
Equality
When all members of society are treated with • During Women’s History Month, 2,849
dignity and respect, individuals, communities, employees in China participated in a learning
and businesses like ours are better positioned to session about women’s equality and the
thrive. This is evident in all societies and cultures importance of cultivating a more equitable
and why we invest in nonprofit organizations workplace for all.
working to make our communities more equitable
• In Japan, 320 employees engaged in a virtual
and just for all.
session with Get in Touch to understand
the importance of supporting and engaging
Our Approach
marginalized groups in their communities.
Our employees’ voices hold an important role • Building community across diverse cultures
and peoples is an important issue in the U.S.
in guiding Western Digital’s work in the equality
To support this ongoing effort, we amplified
space. In FY2023 we partnered with the DEI team
the work of nonprofit organizations building
and our Employee Resource Groups to provide
a more inclusive and equitable society by
$400,000 in Equality Grants to further the work
participating in learning sessions held by
of impactful nonprofit organizations creating
the Global Fund for Women, Right to Be, We
a more inclusive and equitable community. To
Are all Human, Hire Heroes, and many other
celebrate and raise awareness of the beauty of
nonprofit organizations.
our diversity, we engaged 4,955 Western Digital
employees in 30 volunteer and learning events to
• The LGBTQ+ movement has made significant
help nonprofits earn $154,000 in volunteer grants.
strides, and our employees are proud to
be allies. Around the world, 652 employees
• With Together Foundation, 563 volunteers in
participated in various learning and volunteering
Thailand created 4,000 tactile coloring books
activities with nonprofit organizations in Israel,
for visually impaired children and young adults
Japan, Thailand, and the U.S. to cultivate a
that were shared with specialized schools.
more inclusive community.
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 63
General Disclosures IN THIS SECTION:
I ntegrity
Our Culture of Ethics 64
Anti-Corruption 65
Data Privacy and Security 66
Our Culture of Ethics
Management Approach
GRI 2-23
Annual Training Ongoing Instructor-Led Training
Our integrity and ethical business practices are Additionally, our Code of Business Ethics sets out Western Digital has established a unique and Likewise, the Ethics and Compliance team trains
fundamental to our business success. Ethical a framework for ethical business conduct for our effective annual tradition of celebrating and our workforce directly throughout the year,
decisions lead to lower long-term costs and directors, officers and employees. Collectively, our amplifying our focus on ethical conduct during focusing on targeted instructor-led training
higher profits. Our strong culture of ethics is a codes, charters, policies and procedures require a special week-long observance we call Ethics based on business requests, risk factors, legal
key differentiator for our customers, which leads our global workforce to safeguard our company’s Fest. During this time, we require professional and regulatory changes and requirements,
to more sales and market share. Our ethics also valuable reputation and act with ethics and staff and people managers to complete online and/or changes in emerging circumstances.
help us attract and retain the best talent, as integrity in business dealings. training. Every year, this training promotes our For example, we train people managers regularly
potential employees prefer companies that act multiple avenues for reporting and reiterates on topics relevant to managing their teams,
with integrity. By acting ethically and responsibly, Our Chief Compliance Officer oversees our our celebrated speak-up culture, highlighting such as how to promote a “ Speak-Up” culture
we reduce operational risk and help the company global Ethics and Compliance Program. With a our broad-based compliance topics and strict within their teams and other ethics-related topics
operate smoothly, quickly, and lawfully. secondary reporting relationship to the Audit prohibition against retaliation. We also rotate relevant to their managerial responsibilities.
Committee of our Board of Directors, the program in other compliance topics as appropriate. This year’s instructor-led training included
Our Code of Business Ethics and Code of operates with significant independence and Every year, we also train our factory workers in sessions on business courtesies, accurate books
Conduct embody a unifying guide anchored in autonomy. It focuses on strategic risk areas speaking up, accessing reporting channels and and records, anti-corruption, trade compliance,
Western Digital’s core values. They explain our identified through periodic enterprise-wide other Global Code of Conduct topics important antitrust, data privacy, conflicts of interest,
ethical and legal obligations to our colleagues, evaluations and assessments. Our ethics and to their jobs. charitable donations, proper handling of reported
company, business partners, and communities, and compliance team covers numerous risk areas concerns, and protecting confidential information.
provide an ethical and behavioral framework for our including, among others, anti-corruption, data
decisions. A copy of our Global Code of Conduct privacy, and global trade. We regularly conduct
is available in 9 languages and is accessible trainings and compliance initiatives across
to Western Digital’s workforce, its employees, these risk areas.
business partners, and the public at large.
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 64
Anti-Corruption
Certifications We promote the Ethics Helpline and our Our global anti-corruption efforts are not merely
strict prohibition against retaliation across all about mitigating a single high-risk transaction
Our Chief Compliance Officer oversees annual
company locations globally. Our Ethics Helpline at one point in time, but about creating a culture
compliance certification from several thousand
is available 24 hours a day both online at where all resources — people and technology —
Management Approach
specially designated employees. This group
www.ethicshelplinewdc.com in nine languages, promote transparent and fair business practices.
includes all our senior members of management.
and by phone in over 200 languages in all the Our opposition to corruption starts with the tone
GRI 3-3
These employees complete an annual online
countries where we do business. Anyone who set by our Board of Directors and our Executive
questionnaire, certifying compliance with
suspects misconduct, has feedback, or wants Leadership Team, and permeates down to our
Western Digital is committed to doing business
provisions of the Global Code of Conduct,
to inquire about our ethics and compliance employees, contractors and business partners.
the right way, every day. We pride ourselves on
including and requiring any necessary disclosures.
rules and expectations can raise their concerns It is fundamental to who we are and how we
operating lawfully and expect the same of our
through the Helpline. operate our business.
business partners. A member of the Responsible
Raising Concerns
Business Alliance (“RBA”), Western Digital
A third party, whose operators speak more than Western Digital performs periodic compliance
complies with and expects its business partners to
GRI 2-26 200 languages, intakes our Helpline reports. risk assessments, enterprise risk management
comply with the standards described in our Global
They send reported concerns to our Global Ethics reviews, and where appropriate, risk-based
Code of Conduct and Supplier Code of Conduct.
Western Digital values and promotes a “Speak-Up” and Compliance team. Dedicated and well-trained audits of internal processes, alongside business
culture. Anyone may report potentially improper investigations staff work with appropriate partners inspections and reviews to ensure
Western Digital continues focusing its anti-
conduct without fear of retaliation. Our Ethics internal and external resources to investigate compliance with relevant laws and regulations,
corruption efforts on ensuring compliance
Helpline is available to all: our workforce, concerns, remediate misconduct, and help including those on anti-corruption. As a data
with all applicable global anti-corruption laws,
business partners, suppliers, and members of enhance controls to minimize risk of recurrence. company, Western Digital proudly incorporates
including vetting our business partners, training
our communities. Our Chief Compliance Officer regularly updates data analytics into fundamental operations of
key stakeholders, and issuing regular anti-
the Audit Committee on misconduct reports our compliance program. Utilizing large data sets
corruption communications. Ensuring that all
and related remediation. and benchmarking ourselves against industry
Western Digital business partners throughout the
peers helps us focus anti-corruption resources
supply chain understand that compliance with
on the right issues and locations in a timely
anti-corruption laws is imperative for partnering
fashion, allowing us to guide business efforts
with Western Digital helps drive compliance
while ensuring we conduct business lawfully and
efforts while protecting our employees, customers,
Global Code of Conduct Training FY2021 FY2022 FY2023
efficiently. Supporting our advice with data helps
communities, and shareholders. As we continue
us be persuasive advocates and strengthen
to evolve our global footprint, we foster close
Number of professional and managerial workers1 20,435 22,460 21,905
our client relationships.
collaboration and open lines of communication
assigned online Global Code of Conduct training
with internal and external stakeholders alike.
% of training completion by month-end deadline 99.8% 99.9% 99.9% Our proactive collaboration with our Sales Western Digital has a comprehensive,
enterprise-wide anti-bribery and corruption
and Procurement teams, as well as with our
Number of employees not finished by deadline 43 2 32
program, including policies, procedures, and
distributors and other business partners, have
internal controls. The program applies to all
Time required to reach 100% training completion 35 33 33 strengthened our operating model, leading to
Western Digital employees, contractors, and
after month-end deadline (days) improved transactional visibility, embedding of
business partners and includes extensive broad-
anti-corruption tenets and controls in our business
Number of employees receiving instructor-led training 5,819 3,768 6,465 based anti-corruption training for employees.
model, and improved visibility for our leadership.
The training takes place at onboarding, annually,
1 Includes Western Digital employees and contractors.
and via targeted online and in-person trainings.
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 65
Western Digital’s management regularly Data Privacy Western Digital routinely evaluates our data Our Global Privacy Policy complies with
communicates on various anti-corruption tenets, privacy and security management systems, privacy laws throughout the world, including
laws, regulations, expectations, and requirements measuring and testing them on a regular basis. requirements of the EU General Data Protection
and Security
to employees, contractors, and business partners. Data security is monitored, measured and Regulation (GDPR), the California Privacy
reported to appropriate leadership. For data Rights Act (CPRA), and other applicable privacy
In addition to our Global Code of Conduct and privacy, we report to the Audit Committee as laws. Our policy makes clear Western Digital’s
Supplier Code of Conduct, our policies include, Management Approach needed on privacy regulation updates and commitment to collect, use, and share personal
among others, a comprehensive Global Anti- our program readiness. information based on consent or other legitimate
Corruption Policy, a Charitable Donations of GRI 103-2, GRI 103-3, SASB TC-HW-230a.1 legal purposes. Our Privacy Statement notifies
Company Funds and Assets Policy, and a Global customers how we use data, and we are
Policies
Business Courtesies Policy. We prominently outline Western Digital invests in protecting individuals’ committed to following laws that may require
our anti-corruption commitments in our Global privacy by helping to secure and respect personal Our policies reflect our commitment to help additional disclosures related to sharing data
Code of Conduct and periodically evaluate and information that customers and employees share ensure the privacy of our data infrastructure with third parties. Third parties that process
update our program, including setting annual goals with us. Our customers are comfortable working and customers: personal information on our behalf commit to
reported to Western Digital’s Board of Directors. with us because they trust that their data will appropriate laws and standards through our
be well protected. We take this responsibility • Global Confidential Information Policy: contracting process.
Outlines rules for protecting sensitive
seriously and are committed to following high
information generally, including
standards of internal data management practices. We review our data privacy and security policies
GRI 205-1
personal information
regularly. In 2022, we updated our Online Privacy
Our comprehensive approach to data Statement and provided notification through
Anti- FY2021 FY2022 FY2023 • Information Technology Acceptable Use
management involves two business functions: email to our customers and end users. Beyond
Corruption Policy: Governs how our employees may utilize
the data privacy and security policies discussed
technology and devices attached to our network
1. Data Security: Groups that help manage data
above, Western Digital protects sensitive and/
Percentage 100% 100% 100%1
security risks in the organization include our • Enterprise Cyber Security Policy: Provides or personal data through additional policies
of operations
Intellectual Property Compliance, Information guidance to employees and IT personnel
assessed for and guidelines:
Security, and Physical Security teams. Our on protecting our infrastructure from cyber-
risks related
to corruption Information Security team, responsible for attacks, including a comprehensive incident • Global Code of Conduct
protecting company data, is led by our Chief response plan
• Patch Management and Malware
1 Figure may be subject to change, pending third-party review of Information Security Officer / Vice President,
Western Digital's ethics and compliance programs for FY2023. • Online Privacy Statement: Provides clear Prevention Policy
IT Infrastructure and Operations, who delivers
terms for how Western Digital collects, uses
quarterly reports to the Audit Committee of • Privileged Account Policy
and processes personal information providing
our Board of Directors.
customers with a mechanism to raise privacy • Corporate Password Policy
questions and exercise their data subject
2. Data Privacy: We have a dedicated team
• Guidelines for Handling Confidential Information
rights such as the right to access, correct,
of certified data privacy experts, including
a Data Protection Officer and full-time or delete personal information • Guidelines for Handling Business
Partner Information
privacy professionals.
• Global Privacy Policy: Describes roles,
requirements and processes to employees for • Guidelines for Secure Document Shredding
handling personal and sensitive information
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 66
Risk Assessment and System Testing Vulnerability Submission Acknowledgment
• Create and forward cases to the appropriate
Western Digital conducts regular risk
engineering team for validation and acceptance
assessments and testing of our systems and
procedures. In 2021, we conducted a company- • Respond to researchers (within three
wide compliance risk assessment (including business days)
privacy) and a tabletop exercise to test the
• Communicate within a responsible disclosure
company’s response to a potential privacy
window to resolve the vulnerability (~90 days)
incident. The goals of these activities are to
identify opportunities for improving security
Identification and Plan of Action
and privacy strategy, systems, and efficiency.
• Identify root cause, scope of the vulnerability,
impact, and risk in reported product(s).
Incident Management
• Develop potential remediation options.
Western Digital’s information technology and
• Conduct third-party security audits on
privacy teams partner to prevent and respond
impacted products when appropriate or the
to incidents. With a comprehensive Incident
planned fix to ensure proper remediation.
Response Plan, we have defined roles and
responsibilities for numerous possible scenarios,
Mitigation and Resolution All-Employee Training and Communications
such as a privacy incident. The plan includes
• Post security bulletin to the product security
notification procedures, response processes,
webpage, explaining the vulnerability, potential Information Security Awareness Online module training in August 2022
and escalation protocols.
user(s) impact, and necessary actions to
Confidential Information Online module training in October 2022
mitigate or resolve the security vulnerability.
Product Security
Global Privacy Laws Online module training in October 2022
In addition to our efforts to protect the information Training
Confidentiality and Privacy Communications Rotating program of enterprise-wide communications
that Western Digital manages or controls, our
including blogs, podcasts, executive communications,
Western Digital conducts extensive employee
Product Security Incident Response Team
posters, and infographics
training and communications on data privacy and
(PSIRT) manages issues relating to possible
security to ensure our employees understand how
security risks in the products we sell. Targeted Training and Communications
to manage, handle, and protect data. We use a
combination of all-employee and targeted training
We maintain a public website to provide Acceptable Use Policy APAC Procurement leaders sent reminders to their teams
for both factory and corporate employees.
information and transparency to our customers in Fall 2022
and to direct security researchers or others who
Privacy Policy and Laws Suite of thirteen targeted courses administered on a
seek to responsibly disclose vulnerabilities to Key Metrics
rotating basis, plus tailored on-demand offerings
our PSIRT@wdc.com reporting address.
GRI 418-1 Global Confidential Information Policy Suite of eight courses given to different business areas,
plus tailored on-demand offerings
Western Digital experienced one substantiated
complaint concerning breaches of Other (Testing)
customer privacy.
Phishing education and simulations
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 67
ESG Data Our ESG Data provides an update to reflect our performance over
the last three fiscal years.
F iscal Year 2023
FY 2021 represents fiscal year 2021 (July 4, 2020–July 2, 2021),
FY 2022 represents fiscal year 2022 (July 3, 2021–July 1, 2022), and
FY 2023 represents fiscal year 2023 (July 2, 2022 – June 30, 2023).
Environment
GRI 302-1, SASB TC-SC-130a.1 GRI 302-3
Energy consumption Energy Intensity FY2021 FY2022 FY2023
FY2021 FY2022 FY2023 FY2021 FY2021 FY2023
within the organization1
Energy intensity ratio (kWh/PB)1 3,883.6 3,350.1 3,829.3
GIGAWATT HOURS TRILLION JOULES
1 The energy intensity ratio is based on energy consumed within the organization and is measured in kilowatt-hours per petabyte. Types of energy included are
Total fuel consumption from 159.6 164.7 160.8 574.6 592.7 578.9 fuel and electricity. The denominator is shipped storage capacity.
nonrenewable sources (gas/oil)
Total fuel consumption from 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
renewable sources
Total Electricity consumption 1,941.4 1,996.2 1,755.4 6,989.1 7,186.2 6,319.4 GRI 302-5
Electricity consumption 279.9 467.9 485.1 1,007.6 1,684.5 1,746.4
Electrical Power Savings FY2021 FY2022 FY2023
from renewable sources
Electricity consumption 1,661.5 1,528.2 1,270.2 5,981.5 5,501.7 4,572.7 Annual electrical power savings due to HDD power efficiency innovations 2,231.61 2,988.11 3,627.9
from nonrenewable sources (million kWh)
Total energy consumption 2,101.0 2,160.8 1,916.2 7,321.6 7,563.7 6,898.3
1 The annual electrical power savings for FY2021 and FY2022 have been restated from previously published data due to an update of the supporting data.
1 Data includes the main research, development, and manufacturing facilities owned by Western Digital Corporation in each fiscal year. These facilities are
located in the United States, China, India, Israel, Japan, Malaysia, Philippines, and Thailand. Western Digital continues to reference the Greenhouse Gas
Protocol (GHG Protocol), the most widely used international accounting tool for government and business leaders, to understand, quantify, and manage
greenhouse gas emissions.
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 68
GRI 305-1, SASB TC-SC-110a.1
Total Direct (Scope 1) FY2021 FY2022 FY2023 Conversion Factor Total Direct (Scope 1) FY2021 FY2022 FY2023 Conversion Factor
GHG Emissions (CO e-ton) GHG Emissions (CO e-ton)
2 2
CO (gas/oil + cleaning) 33,558.3 34,485.0 36,447.8 1 R-514A 0.0 0.0 2.1 2,000 (lbs/lbs)
2
CH 0.0 0.0 0.0 N/A
4 Total Scope 1 46,152.0 48,310.7 139,982.3
N O 0.0 0.0 0.0 N/A
2 1 The conversion factor for HFC-23 is calculated by Western Digital. It is determined by facility based on the international technical review of the abatement
process in manufacturing. The conversion factor for HFC-134a is based on the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) fifth assessment report,
HFCs1 (HFC-23, HFC-32, HFC-134a) 903.6 4,438.0 1,206.4 HFC-23: Multiple factors:
100-year number.
12,400 (lbs/lbs)
2 Western Digital has updated its Scope 1 inventory and is reporting emissions for HFC-43-10 beginning in FY2023.
3,047 (lbs/lbs)
3 Some facilities use the IPCC fifth assessment report, 100-year number, and others use conversion factors determined by facility based on the international
HFC-32: 677 (lbs/lbs)
technical review of the abatement process in manufacturing.
HFC-134a: 1,300 (lbs/lbs)
4 Calculated by Western Digital: the conversion factor is determined by facility based on the international technical review of the abatement process in manufacturing.
HFC-43-102 0.0 0.0 88,496.9 1,650 (lbs/lbs) 5 IPCC fifth assessment report, 100-year number.
6 IPCC fifth assessment report, 100-year number.
PFCs 0.0 0.0 0.0 N/A
7 Global warming potential (GWP) is calculated based on component gases’ GWPs (44% HFC-125, 4% HFC-134a, 52% HFC 143a).
8 GWP is calculated based on component gases’ GWPs (25% HFC-125, 52% HFC-134a, 23% HFC-32).
SF 3 2,324.1 270.0 629.0 Multiple factors:
6
23,500 (lbs/lbs) 9 GWP is calculated based on component gases’ GWPs (50% HFC-32 , 50% HFC-125).
10,575 (lbs/lbs) 10 GWP is calculated based on component gases’ GWPs (39% HFC-23, 61% PFC-116).
9,623 (lbs/lbs)
GRI 305-2
NF 4 4.7 0.2 1.2 2,898 (lbs/lbs)
3
CF 3 409.4 58.0 107.2 Multiple factors: Total Indirect (Scope 2) FY2021 FY2022 FY2023
4
6,630 (lbs/lbs) GHG Emissions (CO e-ton)1
2
4,774 (lbs/lbs)
4,344 (lbs/lbs)
CO e2 929,882.7 841,669.2 683,977.1
2
C F 4 3.5 7.4 8.0 6,010 (lbs/lbs)
4 8
1 Scope 2 market-based emissions; all gases CO, CH, and NO are included.
2 4 2
HFE71005 7,540.1 8,214.6 11,529.4 421.0 (lbs/lbs) 2 International Energy Association (IEA) emission factors
HFE72005 8.6 8.6 14.8 57 (lbs/lbs)
GRI 305-3
HCFC-225 93.1 156.8 620.2 1,760 (lbs/lbs)
Other Indirect (Scope 3) FY2021 FY2022 FY2023
HCFC-1226 0.0 10.6 0.0 59 (lbs/lbs)
GHG Emissions (CO e-ton)
2
HCFC-1235 14.2 42.8 141.2 79 (lbs/lbs)
Category 6: Business Travel1, 2 361.6 5,442.7 7,547.9
R-404A7 1,292.5 1,535.9 12.4 3,943 (lbs/lbs)
R-407C8 0.0 0.0 206.3 1,624 (lbs/lbs) Category 11: Use of Sold Products3 6,127,263.0 6,603,594.0 4,314,614.2
R-410A9 0.0 82.9 559.4 1,923 (lbs/lbs) 1 At this time, reported Scope 3, Category 6: business travel emissions include business air travel only.
2 Defra emission factors.
R-508B10 0.0 0.0 0.0 11,607 (lbs/lbs)
3 IPCC sixth assessment report, 100-year number, grid emission factor.
Note: Our complete FY2020, FY2021, and FY2022 Scope 3 inventories are disclosed in our 2021, 2022, and 2023 CDP Climate Change response, which are
posted on our Corporate Responsibility website.
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 69
GRI 305-4 SASB TC-HW-410a.4
GHG Emissions Intensity1 FY2021 FY2021 FY2023 End-of-Life Material1 FY20232
GHG emissions intensity ratio — HDD (Tons/PB)2 1.7 1.2 1.4 Number of devices recycled (cumulative total) 30,325
GHG emissions intensity ratio — SSD (Tons/PB)2 2.6 2.2 2.5 Total end-of life material recovered (metric tons, cumulative total) 12.7
1 The denominator used to calculate the GHG emissions intensity ratio is shipped memory capacity. 1 Represents material recovered through Western Digital’s Easy Recycle Program. Recovery partner holds an e-Steward certification.
2 Includes Scope 1 and Scope 2 market-based GHG emissions and all gases CO, CH, NO, HFCs, PFCs, SF, and NF. 2 Results are cumulative from the program’s inception in April 2020 through the end of the specified fiscal year.
2 4 2 6 3
GRI 306-3, 306-4, 306-5, TC-SC-150a.1
SASB TC-HW-410a.1, TC-SC-410a.1
Waste FY20221 FY2023
IEC62474 Declarable Substances FY2021 FY2022 FY2023
Metric Tons
Percentage of products by revenue that contain IEC 62474 100% 100% 100%
HAZARDOUS WASTE declarable substances1
Hazardous Waste Diverted 7,119.4 2,496.6 1 Though Western Digital products generally contain IEC 62474 declarable substances, we meet all legal requirements for those substances. The main IEC
62474 declarable substances used in Western Digital products — lead and nickel — are fully compliant with regulations wherever our products are sold.
Hazardous Waste Disposed 4,598.3 4,394.5
Total Hazardous Waste 11,730.7 6,891.4
NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE
GRI 303-3, 303-5; SASB TC-SC-140a.1
Non-Hazardous Waste Diverted 8,355.3 9,848.2
Non-Hazardous Waste Disposed 2,915.5 3,391.4
Water Withdrawal, Recycling, and Consumption FY2021 FY2022 FY2023
Total Non-Hazardous Waste 11,784.9 13,285.2
Total volume of water withdrawn (m3) 17,771,953.3 18,035,001.8 14,208,676.5
Total Waste Generated 23,515.6 20,176.6
Total volume of water recycled and reused (m3) 4,799,151.9 3,622,920.6 4,908,833.0
Waste Reuse/Recycle/Recover Rate 65.8% 61.2%
Total volume water consumed (m3) 7,231,373.7 6,939,399.8 5,479,914.3
1 Due to updates of the underlying data, waste-related data for FY2022 has been restated.
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 70
Supply Chain
SASB TC-HW-430a.1, TC-HW-430a.2 SASB TC-HW-430a.1, TC-HW-430a.2
Suppliers Assessed Using RBA Validated FY2021 FY2022 FY2023 Sub-Tier Suppliers Assessed Using RBA Validated FY2022 FY2023
Assessment Program1 Assessment Program1
Number of in-scope Tier 1 suppliers 138 138 138 Number of Sub-Tier suppliers 69 77
Number of in-scope supplier facilities (Tier 1 + Sub-Tier) 362 390 410 Number of Sub-Tier supplier facilities 115 127
Percentage of all Tier 1 supplier facilities audited in the 62% 64% 67% Percentage of all Sub-Tier supplier facilities audited 61% 61%
RBA Validated Assessment Program or equivalent2 in the RBA Validated Assessment Program or equivalent1
Percentage of high-risk Tier 1 supplier facilities audited in the 0% 0% 0% Percentage of high-risk Sub-Tier supplier facilities audited 0% 0%
RBA Validated Assessment Program or equivalent in the RBA Validated Assessment Program or equivalent
Tier 1 suppliers’ non-conformance rate with the 8% 7% 7% Sub-Tier suppliers’ non-conformance rate with the 5% 6%
RBA Validated Assessment Program or equivalent RBA Validated Assessment Program or equivalent
Tier 1 suppliers’ associated corrective action rate 93% 97% 91% Sub-Tier suppliers’ associated corrective action rate 100% 100%
for priority non-conformances for priority non-conformances
Tier 1 suppliers’ associated corrective action rate 84% 85% 85% Sub-Tier suppliers’ associated corrective action rate 97% 98%
for other non-conformances3 for other non-conformances2
1 Percentages are based on facility count.
1 Percentages are based on facility count.
2 “Other non-conformance” refers to major and minor findings.
2 Total supplier facilities for FY2022–FY2023 encompass 90% of direct material spend and single/sole source and strategic suppliers.
3 “Other Non-Conformance” refers to major and minor findings.
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 71
Our Workforce
GRI 403-8 and 403-9
Health and Safety FY2021 FY2022 FY2023 Health and Safety FY2021 FY2022 FY2023
EMPLOYEES # % # % # % Work-related hazards that pose a risk of i. Hazards — including those related to Machine Safety, Chemical
high-consequence injury, including: Contact, Slip/trip/fall, Struck on/by, Ergonomics and Repetitive
#/rate of employee fatalities 0 0% 0 0% 0 0.0% Trauma — are identified through hazard identification and risk
i. how these hazards have been determined;
assessment process, incident investigation process, and internal/
#/rate of high-consequence work-related 4 0.006% 2 0.003% 2 0.004% ii. which of these hazards have caused or external audits and inspections.
injuries (excluding fatalities) — employees contributed to high-consequence injuries
ii. Struck on working surface, fall to same level
during the reporting period;
Employee Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR)1 29 0.04% 28 0.04% 44 0.08%
iii. Actions taken to minimize risks include the following:
iii. actions taken or underway to eliminate
#/rate of recordable work-related injuries 61 0.09% 57 0.09% 65 0.12% these hazards and minimize risks using 1. Design and evaluate workplace to eliminate hazards.
(including fatalities) — employees the hierarchy of controls
2. Design and evaluate workplace and stations to eliminate
repetitive trauma hazards.
Employee Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR)1 61 0.09% 57 0.09% 65 0.12%
3. Create operating procedures and work instructions, provide
Main types of work-related injury — employees Slip/Trip/Fall, Struck/on/by, Machine safety, Material Handling/Ergo control measures to different hazards.
4. Train and communicate workers to understand and identify
Total number of hours worked — employees 131,495,058 131,495,058 106,636,800
hazards and follow control measures to control hazards.
NON-EMPLOYEE WORKERS # % # % # % 5. Conduct periodic inspection/walk-through to monitor the
workplace and verify that it is free from hazards.
#/rate of non-employee worker fatalities 0 0% 0 0% 0 0.0%
6. Take corrective and preventive actions to eliminate the hazards.
#/rate of high-consequence 0 0% 0 0% 0 0.0%
EMPLOYEES # % # % # %
work-related injuries (excluding fatalities)
— non-employee workers
Whether the rates have been calculated based 200,000
#/rate of recordable work-related injuries 6 N/A 10 N/A 0 N/A on 200,000 or 1,000,000 hours worked
(including fatalities) — non-employee workers
Any workers excluded from this disclosure 0 0 0
(and why)
Workers covered by an occupational health 100% 100% 100%
and safety management system2
1 Employee LTIR and TRIR are Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) Standards. Note: Western Digital currently does not track main types of
work-related injury or total number of hours worked for non-employee workers.
2 Western Digital's occupational health and safety management system covers all manufacturing locations.
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 72
GRI 401-1
Employee Attraction, Retention FY2021 FY2022 FY2023 Employee Attraction, Retention FY2021 FY2022 FY2023
and Engagement and Engagement
EMPLOYEE HIRES # RATE1 # RATE1 # RATE1 EMPLOYEE TURNOVER # RATE2 # RATE2 # RATE2
Hires by age group Under 30 6,774 36.0% 7,497 44.9% 1,542 11.4% Voluntary turnover United States 610 7.7% 1,177 15.0% 833 11.3%
by region
30–50 2,642 6.6% 3,661 8.9% 844 2.2% Asia 5,665 10.1% 8,145 14.6% 6,851 13.6%
50+ 187 3.0% 265 3.7% 113 1.6% Other 80 6.3% 126 9.8% 91 7.2%
Hires by gender Male 3,372 12.3% 5,210 18.8% 1,579 6.0% Involuntary turnover United States 236 3.0% 262 3.3% 517 7.0%
by region
Female 6,229 16.4% 6,213 16.7% 920 2.8% Asia 2,700 4.8% 2,589 4.6% 5,477 10.9%
Hires by region United States 734 9.2% 1,147 14.6% 559 1.2% Other 60 4.7% 38 3.0% 98 7.8%
Asia 8,736 15.6% 10,064 18.0% 1,851 3.7% Total Voluntary Employee Turnover 5,380 8.4% 9,448 14.5% 7,775 13.2%
Other 133 10.5% 212 16.5% 89 7.0% Total Involuntary Employee Turnover 5,995 9.4% 2,889 4.4% 6,092 10.3%
Total Employee Hires 9,603 14.7% 11,432 17.6% 2,499 4.2%
1 Hire rate is calculated as the total number of hires divided by the average headcount over the time period. Employees without gender or birthdate in the source
data are included in the total only and not in age, gender and region breakouts.
EMPLOYEE TURNOVER # RATE2 # RATE2 # RATE2
2 Turnover rate is calculated as the total number of separations/terminations (voluntary and involuntary) divided by the average headcount over the time period.
Employees without gender or birthdate in the source data are included in the total only and not in age, gender and region breakouts.
Voluntary turnover Under 30 3,766 20.0% 5,207 31.2% 3,803 28.2%
by age group
30–50 2,352 5.8% 3,839 9.3% 3,524 9.2%
50+ 237 3.8% 402 5.6% 448 6.2%
Involuntary turnover Under 30 1,175 6.2% 1,383 8.3% 774 5.7%
by age group
30–50 1,523 3.8% 1,213 2.9% 4,021 10.5%
50+ 298 4.8% 293 4.1% 1,297 18.1%
Voluntary turnover Male 2,479 9.1% 3,847 13.8% 3,168 12.0%
by gender
Female 3,876 10.2% 5,599 15.0% 4,607 14.1%
Involuntary turnover Male 659 2.4% 810 2.9% 1,849 7.0%
by gender
Female 2,336 6.2% 2,078 5.6% 4,242 13.0%
Other — — — — 1 40.0%
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 73
GRI 405-1, SASB TC-HW-330a.1 GRI 405-1, SASB TC-HW-330a.1
Gender Representation of Global Employees1 Age Representation of Global Employees1
FY2021 FEMALE MALE OTHER FY2021 UNDER 30 30–50 50+
Management 25.7% 74.3% 0.0% Management 0.9% 66.7% 32.4%
Technical staff 22.3% 77.7% 0.0% Technical staff 22.1% 58.9% 19.0%
All other employees 68.3% 31.7% 0.0% All other employees 32.3% 61.8% 6.0%
Factory employees2 69.8% 30.2% 0.0% Factory employees2 33.8% 61.5% 4.7%
Non-factory employees 51.8% 48.2% 0.1% Non-factory employees 15.2% 64.3% 20.5%
FY2022 FEMALE MALE OTHER FY2022 UNDER 30 30–50 50+
Management 25.7% 74.3% 0.0% Management 1.1% 66.0% 32.8%
Technical staff 23.1% 76.9% 0.0% Technical staff 24.0% 56.8% 19.1%
All other employees 66.8% 33.2% 0.0% All other employees 29.6% 63.6% 6.8%
Factory employees2 68.4% 31.6% 0.0% Factory employees2 31.0% 63.9% 5.1%
Non-factory employees 51.1% 48.8% 0.0% Non-factory employees 15.6% 60.5% 23.8%
FY2023 FEMALE MALE OTHER FY2023 UNDER 30 30–50 50+
Management 26.0% 74.0% 0.0% Management 0.9% 64.6% 34.6%
Technical staff 23.4% 76.6% 0.0% Technical staff 22.7% 58.2% 19.1%
All other employees 64.5% 35.5% 0.0% All other employees 24.7% 67.7% 7.6%
Factory employees2 66.1% 33.9% 0.0% Factory employees2 25.9% 68.5% 5.6%
Non-factory employees 51.5% 48.5% 0.0% Non-factory employees 14.9% 61.1% 24.0%
1 Data is based on the headcount at the end of the indicated fiscal year.
1 Data is based on the headcount at the end of the indicated fiscal year. Gender data is based on self-identification.
2 For purposes of this report, “factory employees” are those working in our factory setting that directly work on product assembly; all remaining employees are
2 For purposes of this report, “factory employees” are those working in our factory setting that directly work on product assembly; all remaining employees are
considered professional or managerial.
considered professional or managerial.
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 74
GRI 405-1, TC-HW-330a.1 GRI 102-8
Racial/Ethnic Group Representation of United States Employees1 Information on Employees and Other Workers1
FY2021 ASIAN BLACK OR HISPANIC WHITE OTHER2 FY2021 FULL-TIME EMPLOYEES PART-TIME EMPLOYEES REGULAR EMPLOYEES
AFRICAN AMERICAN OR LATINO
Gender2 Female 37,955 30 37,985
Management 49.7% 1.1% 4.5% 42.4% 2.3%
Male 27,436 39 27,475
Technical staff 58.3% 1.0% 3.4% 35.9% 1.4%
Other 8 0 8
All other employees 56.2% 2.6% 13.1% 23.8% 4.3%
Region United States 7,892 34 7,926
Factory employees3 62.6% 2.8% 16.2% 13.5% 4.9%
Asia 56,255 22 56,277
Non-factory employees 48.8% 2.2% 9.6% 35.8% 3.6%
Other 1,252 13 1,265
FY2022 ASIAN BLACK OR HISPANIC WHITE OTHER2
AFRICAN AMERICAN OR LATINO
FY2022 FULL-TIME EMPLOYEES PART-TIME EMPLOYEES REGULAR EMPLOYEES
Management 51.5% 1.2% 4.7% 39.8% 2.7%
Gender2 Female 36,541 31 36,572
Technical staff 57.3% 1.1% 3.8% 35.9% 1.8%
Male 28,064 40 28,104
All other employees 56.1% 2.5% 13.6% 22.6% 5.2%
Other 3 0 3
Factory employees3 62.6% 3.1% 16.9% 11.4% 6.0%
Region United States 7,721 27 7,748
Non-factory employees 50.0% 2.0% 10.4% 33.2% 4.3%
Asia 55,588 31 55,619
FY2023 ASIAN BLACK OR HISPANIC WHITE OTHER2
Other 1,299 13 1,312
AFRICAN AMERICAN OR LATINO
FY2023 FULL-TIME EMPLOYEES PART-TIME EMPLOYEES REGULAR EMPLOYEES
Management 52.7% 1.3% 4.6% 38.5% 2.9%
Technical staff 58.8% 1.1% 4.0% 34.2% 1.9% Gender2 Female 28,615 29 28,644
Male 24,642 40 24,682
All other employees 56.9% 2.4% 13.4% 21.6% 5.7%
Other 2 0 2
Factory employees3 64.1% 2.8% 16.5% 10.1% 6.6%
Region United States 6,971 20 6,991
Non-factory employees 50.3% 2.1% 10.6% 32.1% 5.0%
Asia 45,091 34 45,125
1 Data is based on the headcount at the end of the indicated fiscal year.
2 Other includes the following classifications: Native American or Alaska Native, Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander, and “Two or More Races.” Other 1,197 15 1,212
3 For purposes of this report, “factory employees” are those working in our factory setting that directly work on product assembly; all remaining employees
are considered professional or managerial.
1 Data is based on Western Digital’s non-contingent headcount at the end of the indicated fiscal year.
2 Gender data is based on self-identification.
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 75
Governance and Ethics
GRI 205-1 GRI 405-1
Global Code of Conduct Training FY2021 FY2022 FY2023 Board Diversity FY2021 FY2022 FY2023
Number of professional and managerial workers1 20,435 22,460 21,905 By Gender Male 50.0% 55.6% 66.7%
assigned online Global Code of Conduct training
Female 50.0% 44.4% 33.3%
% of training completion by month-end deadline 99.8% 99.9% 99.9%
By Age Under 30 0.0% 0.0% 0.0%
Number of employees not finished by deadline 43 2 32
30–50 12.5% 0.0% 11.1%
Time required to reach 100% training completion (days) 35 33 33
50+ 87.5% 100.0% 88.9%
Number of employees receiving instructor-led training 5,819 3,768 6,465
1 Includes Western Digital employees and contractors.
GRI 205-1 SASB TC-HW-000.A, TC-SC-000.A, TC-HW-000.B, TC-HW-000.C, TC-SC-000.B
Anti-Corruption FY2021 FY2022 FY2023 Activity Metrics Unit FY2021 FY2022 FY2023
Percentage of operations assessed for risks 100% 100% 100%1 Number of units produced Number 746.9 685.8 557.5
related to corruption by product category (in millions)1
• Communications Equipment
1 Figure may be subject to change, pending third-party review of Western Digital's ethics and compliance programs for FY2023.
• Components
• Computer Hardware
• Computer Peripherals
• Computer Storage
• Consumer Electronics
• Other Hardware
• Printing & Imaging
• Transaction Management Systems
Area of manufacturing facilities Square feet 8,751,512.0 8,693,339.0 9,398,733.02
(ft2)
Percentage of production from Percentage 67.0% 70.0% 72%
owned facilities (%)1
1 Includes computer storage units.
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 76
Indices
GRI Index
This report has been prepared in reference to the GRI Standards.
GRI Disclosure Report Location Omissions GRI Disclosure Report Location Omissions
Standard Description or Direct Answer Standard Description or Direct Answer
GRI 1: FOUNDATION 2021 2-4 Restatements Historical information for fiscal year
of information 2021 and fiscal year 2022 is included
N/A Publish a GRI This document represents the in this report. Additionally, the following
content index Company’s content index. information has been restated:
N/A Requirement 8: Provide Sustainability Report FY2023, page 2 • GRI 302-5: Electrical Power Savings
due to an update of supporting data.
a statement of use
• 306-3, 306-4, 306-5: FY2022
GRI 2: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2021
waste data due to an update of
supporting data.
2-1 Organizational details Legal Name:
Western Digital Corporation
2-5 External assurance Sustainability Report FY2023, page 36
Ownership and legal form:
Our FY2023 data is currently undergoing
Publicly traded company under
limited assurance. This Report will be
NASDAQ: WDC
updated when the assurance process
Location of Headquarters: is complete.
San Jose, California
2-6 Activities, value chain, Sectors served:
Location of Operations:
and other business Western Digital Corporate Website —
2023 Annual Report on Form 10-K
relationships Solutions — Industries
2-2 Entities included in 2023 Annual Report on Form 10-K Value chain:
the organization’s • Activities, products, services,
Sustainability Reporting markets served: Sustainability Report
FY2023, page 28; 2023 Annual Report
2-3 Reporting period, This report covers Western Digital’s
on Form 10-K, pages 6–20
frequency and Fiscal Year 2023 reporting period from
• Supply chain: Sustainability Report
contact point July 2, 2022 – June 30, 2023. Western
FY2023, page 41
Digital prepares and publishes the
Sustainability Report for every fiscal • Entities downstream from the
year, which is the same period as its organization and their activities:
annual financial reporting. The contact 2023 Annual Report on Form 10-K,
point is sustainability@wdc.com. pages 4–10
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 77
GRI Disclosure Report Location or Omissions GRI Disclosure Report Location or Omissions
Standard Description Direct Answer Standard Description Direct Answer
2-6 (cont.) Activities, value Other relevant business relationships: 2-26 Mechanisms for Sustainability Report FY2023, page 65
chain, and other 2023 Annual Report on Form 10-K seeking advice and
business relationships raising concerns
Significant changes in the above
compared to last FY: We had no
2-28 Membership associations The Responsible Business
significant changes to our organization,
Alliance, Circular Drive Initiative,
organization’s sector, value chain, or
First Mover's Coalition
other relevant business relationships
in FY2023. 2-29 Approach to Sustainability Report FY2023, page 29
stakeholder engagement
2-7 Employees Sustainability Report FY2023,
page 55; ESG Data 2-30 Collective For employees that are not covered
bargaining agreements by a collective bargaining agreement,
2-9 Governance structure Sustainability Report FY2023, page 31 their working conditions and terms of
and composition employment are based on our Global
Human Rights Policy and Global
Code of Conduct, the RBA Code of
2-14 Role of the highest The Governance Committee of the
Conduct, and applicable local labor
governance body in Board of Directors reviews and
laws. Our standards are based on
Sustainability Reporting approves the reported information,
internally recognized human rights and
including the organization’s material
related standards as outlined in the
topics, before publication.
UN International Bill of Human Rights
(including the UN Universal Declaration
2-21 Annual total Ratio: 958:1
on Human Rights), the ILO Declaration
compensation ratio
Title: CEO
on Fundamental Principles and Rights
Contextual information: at Work, the UN Guiding Principles
on Business and Human Rights, and
• Employees included in calculation:
the OECD Guidelines for Multinational
includes all regular, part-time,
Enterprises. Where local law conflicts
supplemental, and temporary
with the aforementioned standards,
employees w/o exclusions
Western Digital will comply with
• Part-time employees: For hourly local requirements.
employees, base wages were
calculated based on reasonable GRI 3: MATERIAL TOPICS 2021
estimate of hours worked in FY23
times the employee’s hourly wage. 3-1 Process to determine Sustainability Report FY2023, page 2
All permanent employees who did material topics
not work full FY were annualized.
3-2 List of material topics Sustainability Report FY2023, page 29
• Compensation included: Total
Western Digital’s list of material topics
target cash (incl. base salary or
has not changed since the Fiscal Year
base wages, target cash incentives;
2022 reporting period.
excludes CEO PSUs)
3-3 Management of Western Digital does not currently
material topics address the Precautionary Principle.
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 78
GRI Disclosure Report Location or Omissions GRI Disclosure Report Location or Omissions
Standard Description Direct Answer Standard Description Direct Answer
ECONOMIC TOPICS 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) ESG Data
GHG emissions
Anti-Corruption
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) ESG Data
3-3 Management of Sustainability Report FY2023, page 65 GHG emissions
material topics
305-4 GHG emissions intensity ESG Data
205-1 Operations assessed for Sustainability Report FY2023, page 66;
risks related to corruption ESG Data Waste
ENVIRONMENTAL TOPICS 3-3 Management of Not Applicable Waste was not identified
material topics as a material topic for
Energy Western Digital
3-3 Management of Sustainability Report FY2023, page 32 306-3 Waste generated ESG Data
material topics
306-4 Waste diverted from disposal ESG Data
302-1 Energy consumption ESG Data
within the organization 306-5 Waste directed to disposal ESG Data
302-3 Energy intensity ESG Data SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
302-5 Reductions in energy ESG Data 3-3 Management of Not Applicable Supplier Environmental
requirements of products material topics Assessment was not
and services identified as a material topic
for Western Digital
Water
308-1 New suppliers that 100% of new direct materials and
3-3 Management of Not Applicable Water was not identified were screened using production part suppliers as part of
material topics as a material topic for environmental criteria the supplier onboarding process
Western Digital
308-2 Negative environmental Number of suppliers assessed for Unavailable Information:
303-3 Water withdrawal ESG Data impacts in the supply environmental impacts:
• Number of suppliers as
chain and actions taken
having significant actual
303-5 Water consumption ESG Data FY2023: 166 suppliers responded
and potential negative
to the 2022 CDP Climate Change
Emissions Questionnaire; 153 suppliers environmental impacts
responded to the 2022 Water • Percentage of suppliers
3-3 Management of Sustainability Report FY2023, page 32
Security Questionnaire.1 identified as having
material topics
significant actual and
Sustainability Report FY2023, page 49
potential negative
1.2 Whether offsets were used No offsets were used
environmental impacts
and improvements were
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) ESG Data
agreed upon as a result
GHG emissions
of assessment
1 Due to the CDP disclosure timeline, and for the purposes of this report, calendar year data will be reported to represent fiscal year data. The data will also be
reported for the fiscal year in which the calendar year completed. For example, calendar year 2022 data is referenced to represent fiscal year 2023 data.
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 79
GRI Disclosure Report Location or Omissions GRI Disclosure Report Location or Omissions
Standard Description Direct Answer Standard Description Direct Answer
SOCIAL TOPICS 403-6 Promotion of Sustainability Report FY2023, page 59
worker health
Employment
403-7 Prevention and mitigation Sustainability Report FY2023, page 59
3-3 Management of Sustainability Report FY2023, page 51 of occupational health
material topics and safety impacts
directly linked by
401-1 New employee hires and ESG Data
business relationships
employee turnover
403-8 Workers covered ESG Data
401-2 Benefits provided to full- Sustainability Report FY2023, page 55
by an occupational
time employees that are
health and safety
not provided to temporary
management system
or part-time employees
403-9 Work-related injuries ESG Data
Occupational Health and Safety
Training and Education
3-3 Management of Sustainability Report FY2023, page 57
material topics
3-3 Management of Not Applicable Training and Education was
material topics not identified as a material
403-1 Occupational Sustainability Report FY2023, page 57
topic for Western Digital
health and safety
management system
404-2 Programs for Sustainability Report FY2023, page 56
upgrading employee
403-2 Hazard identification, Sustainability Report FY2023, page 58
skills and transition
risk assessment, and
assistance programs
incident investigation
404-3 Percentage of employees Sustainability Report FY2023, page 56
403-3 Occupational Sustainability Report FY2023, page 59
receiving regular
health services
performance and career
development reviews
403-4 Worker participation, Sustainability Report FY2023, page 59
consultation, and
Diversity and Equal Opportunity
communication on
occupational health
3-3 Management of Sustainability Report FY2023, page 51
and safety
material topics
403-5 Worker training on Sustainability Report FY2023, page 57
405-1 Diversity of governance ESG Data
occupational health
bodies and employees
and safety
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 80
GRI Disclosure Report Location or Omissions GRI Disclosure Report Location or Omissions
Standard Description Direct Answer Standard Description Direct Answer
Child Labor Supplier Social Assessment
3-3 Management of Sustainability Report FY2023, page 41 3-3 Management of Not Applicable Supplier Social Assessment
material topics material topics was not identified as a material
topic for Western Digital
408-1 Operations and suppliers Sustainability Report FY2023, page 42 414-2 Negative social impacts Sustainability Report FY2023, page 42
at significant risk for in the supply chain and
incidents of child labor actions taken
Forced or Compulsory Labor Customer Privacy
3-3 Management of Sustainability Report FY2023, page 41 3-3 Management of Sustainability Report FY2023, page 66
material topics material topics
409-1 Operations and suppliers Sustainability Report FY2023, page 42 418-1 Substantiated complaints Sustainability Report FY2023, page 67
at significant risk for concerning breaches of
incidents of forced or customer privacy and
compulsory labor losses of customer data
Human Rights Assessment
3-3 Management of Sustainability Report FY2023, page 41
material topics
412-1 Operations that have Sustainability Report FY2023, page 42
been subject to human
rights reviews or
impact assessments
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 81
Indices
SASB Hardware
Standard Index
SASB Code Metric Report Location SASB Code Metric Report Location
or Direct Answer or Direct Answer
ACTIVITY METRICS TC-HW-410a.2 Percentage of eligible products, by revenue, The vast majority of Western Digital’s
meeting the requirements for EPEAT registration products do not fall into the specific
TC-HW-000.A Number of units produced by product category ESG Data or equivalent product categories that would make
them eligible for qualification through
• Communications • Consumer Electronics
Green Electronics Council’s Electronic
Equipment
• Other Hardware Product Environmental Assessment
• Components Tool (EPEAT). In fact, prior to 2018, no
• Printing & Imaging
Western Digital products were eligible
• Computer Hardware
• Transaction
for qualification. The few EPEAT-
• Computer Peripherals Management Systems
eligible products we currently sell do
• Computer Storage meet many other environmental and
regulatory requirements, including EU
Ecodesign, which overlap with many
TC-HW-000.B Area of manufacturing facilities ESG Data
EPEAT requirements.
TC-HW-000.C Percentage of production from owned facilities ESG Data
TC-HW-410a.3 Percentage of eligible products, by revenue, For similar reasons as explained in
meeting ENERGY STAR® criteria SASB TC-HW-410a.2, the vast majority
ACCOUNTING METRICS
of our products are not eligible for
ENERGY STAR certification. Several
TC-HW-230a.1 Description of approach to identifying and Sustainability Report FY2023, page 66
previously eligible products have
addressing data security risks in products
recently been sold to other companies
(e.g., IntelliFlash and ActiveScale).
TC-HW-330a.1 Percentage of gender and racial/ethnic group ESG Data
representation for (1) management, (2) technical
TC-HW-410a.4 Weight of end-of-life products and ESG Data
staff, and (3) all other employees
e-waste recovered; percentage recycled
TC-HW-410a.1 Percentage of products by revenue that contain ESG Data
TC-HW-430a.1 Suppliers Assessed Using RBA Sustainability Report FY2023, page 48;
IEC 62474 declarable substances
& TC-HW-430a.2 Validated Assessment Program (VAP) ESG Data
TC-HW-440a.1 Description of the management of risks Sustainability Report FY2023, page 45
associated with the use of critical materials
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 82
Indices
SASB Semiconductors
Standard Index
SASB Code Metric Report Location SASB Code Metric Report Location
or Direct Answer or Direct Answer
ACTIVITY METRICS TC-SC-320a.1 Description of efforts to assess, monitor, Sustainability Report FY2023, page 57
and reduce exposure of employees to human
TC-SC-000.A Total production ESG Data health hazards
TC-SC-000.B Percentage of production from ESG Data TC-SC-320a.2 Total amount of monetary losses as a result of FY2023: $0
owned facilities legal proceedings associated with employee
health and safety violations
ACCOUNTING METRICS
TC-SC-330a.1 Percentage of employees that are (1) foreign Western Digital does not disclose
TC-SC-110a.1 (1) Gross global Scope 1 emissions and ESG Data nationals and (2) located offshore the percentage of employees who are
(2) amount of total emissions from foreign nationals or located offshore.
perfluorinated compounds However, we disclose a breakdown of our
workforce by region. See the ESG Data
TC-SC-110a.2 Discussion of long-term and short-term Sustainability Report FY2023, page 32
for more information.
strategy or plan to manage Scope 1 emissions,
emissions reduction targets, and an analysis of TC-SC-410a.1 Percentage of products by revenue that contain ESG Data
performance against those targets IEC 62474 declarable substances
TC-SC-130a.1 (1) Total energy consumed, (2) percentage grid ESG Data TC-SC-410a.2 Processor energy efficiency at a system-level Western Digital does not manufacture servers
electricity, (3) percentage renewable for: (1) servers, (2) desktops, and (3) laptops (processors), desktops, or laptops. Thus, this
metric is not applicable to our business.
TC-SC-140a.1 (1) Total water withdrawn, (2) total water ESG Data
consumed, percentage of each in regions with TC-SC-440a.1 Description of the management of risks Sustainability Report FY2023, page 45
Percentage of water withdrawn and
High or Extremely High Baseline Water Stress associated with the use of critical materials
consumed from regions with high or
extremely high baseline water stress1:
TC-SC-520a.1 Total amount of monetary losses as a result FY2023: $0
23.4% of total FY2023 water withdrawal
of legal proceedings associated with anti-
27.3% of total FY2023 water consumption
competitive behavior regulations
TC-SC-150a.1 Amount of hazardous waste from ESG Data
manufacturing, percentage recycled 1 Western Digital applied the results of the WRI Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas version 3.0 for this assessment.
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 83
Indices
TCFD Index Western Digital has considered the recommendations from
the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD).
This Index demonstrates the alignment between Western Digital’s
disclosures and the TCFD recommendations and indicates
where relevant information can be referenced.
Topic TCFD Recommended Disclosure Disclosure Reference Topic TCFD Recommended Disclosure Disclosure Reference
ACTIVITY METRICS Risk Management a) Describe the organization’s processes for Western Digital’s 2022 CDP Climate Change
identifying and assessing climate-related risks. Response (Sections C2.1, C2.2, C2.2a)
Governance a) Describe the Board’s oversight of Western Digital’s 2022 CDP Climate Change
Sustainability Report FY2023, page 34
climate-related risks and opportunities. Response (Section C1.1b)
Sustainability Report FY2023, page 31 b) Describe the organization’s processes Western Digital’s 2022 CDP Climate Change
for managing climate-related risks. Response (Sections C2.1, C2.2)
b) Describe management’s role in Western Digital’s 2022 CDP Climate Change
Sustainability Report FY2023, page 34
assessing and managing climate-related Response (Sections C1.2, C1.2a)
risks and opportunities.
Sustainability Report FY2023, page 34 c) Describe how processes for identifying, Western Digital’s 2022 CDP Climate Change
assessing, and managing climate-related risks Response (Sections C2.1, C2.2)
Strategy a) Describe the climate-related risks and Western Digital’s 2022 CDP Climate Change are integrated into the organization’s overall
Sustainability Report FY2023, page 34
opportunities the organization has identified Response (Sections C2.1a, C2.3, C2.3a, risk management.
over the short, medium, and long term. C2.4, C2.4a)
Metrics and Targets a) Disclose the metrics used by the Western Digital’s 2022 CDP Climate Change
b) Describe the impact of climate-related Western Digital’s 2022 CDP Climate Change organization to assess climate-related risks and Response (Sections C4.2, C4.2a, C4.2b, C9.1)
risks and opportunities on the organization’s Response (Sections C2.3a, C2.4a, C3.1, opportunities in line with its strategy and risk
Sustainability Report FY2023, page 36
businesses, strategy, and financial planning. C3.2a, C3.2b, C3.3, C3.4) management process.
c) Describe the resilience of the organization’s Western Digital’s 2022 CDP Climate Change b) Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2, and, if appropriate, Western Digital’s 2022 CDP Climate Change
strategy, taking into consideration different Response (Sections C3.2, C3.2a, C3.2b) Scope 3 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, and Response (Sections C6.1, C6.3, C6.5, C6.5a)
climate-related scenarios, including a 2°C or the related risks.
Sustainability Report FY2023, page 35 ESG Data
lower scenario.
c) Describe the targets used by the organization Western Digital’s 2022 CDP Climate Change
to manage climate-related risks and Response (Sections C4.1, C4.1a, C4.1b, C4.2,
opportunities and performance against targets. C4.2a, C4.2b)
Sustainability Report FY2023, page 36
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 84
Indices
UN SDG Index
UN SDG SDG Goal Description Disclosure Reference UN SDG SDG Goal Description Disclosure Reference
Ensure healthy lives and Sustainability Report FY2023, page 57 Promote sustained, inclusive, Sustainability Report FY2023, pages 41 and 51
promote well-being for all and sustainable economic
at all ages growth, full and productive
employment and decent work
for all
Achieve gender equality and Sustainability Report FY2023, page 51 Build resilient infrastructure, Sustainability Report FY2023, page 32
empower all women and girls promote inclusive and
sustainable industrialization,
and foster innovation
Ensure availability and Sustainability Report FY2023, page 32 Ensure sustainable consumption Sustainability Report FY2023, page 32
sustainable management of and production patterns
water and sanitation for all
Ensure access to affordable, Sustainability Report FY2023, page 32 Take urgent action to combat Sustainability Report FY2023, page 32
reliable, sustainable and modern climate change and its impacts
energy for all
CEO LETTER OUR 2023 STORY GENERAL DISCLOSURES OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN WORKFORCE GLOBAL GIVING INTEGRITY DATA INDICES PG_ 85
©2024 Western Digital Corporation or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
Western Digital, architecting how data enables the world to solve its biggest challenges. New devices, new systems, new solutions, all optimized and tuned to create the
right conditions for data to realize its full potential. As a leader in data infrastructure, we accept the responsibility to empower people and systems that depend on data.
Western Digital’s data-centric solutions are comprised of the Western Digital, SanDisk®, SanDisk Professional, and WD® brands. www.westerndigital.com
Western Digital, the Western Digital design, the Western Digital logo, SanDisk, and WD are registered trademarks or trademarks of Western Digital Corporation
or its affiliates in the United States and/or other countries. All rights reserved.
The FY2023 Sustainability Report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities laws, including statements regarding expectations for
the impacts of our sustainability initiatives, programs and business practices and expectations for the achievement of our sustainability-related goals and commitments.
These forward-looking statements are based on management’s current expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ
materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Key risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those
expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements include: operational, financial and legal challenges and difficulties inherent in implementing a separation of our
HDD and Flash businesses; the final approval of the separation by our board of directors; volatility in global economic conditions; inflation; increase in interest rates and
economic recession; future responses to and effects of global health crises; the impact of business and market conditions; macroeconomic conditions for the NAND and
hard disk drive markets; the impact of the announced separation transaction, including with respect to customer and supplier relationships, regulatory and contractual
restrictions, stock price volatility and the diversion of management’s attention from ongoing business operations and opportunities; the impact of competitive products
and pricing; our development and introduction of products based on new technologies and expansion into new data storage markets; risks associated with cost saving
initiatives, restructurings, acquisitions, divestitures, mergers, joint ventures and our strategic relationships; difficulties or delays in manufacturing or other supply chain
disruptions; hiring and retention of key employees; our level of debt and other financial obligations; changes to our relationships with key customers; compromise,
damage or interruption from cybersecurity incidents or other data system security risks; actions by competitors; international conflict; risks associated with compliance
with changing legal and regulatory requirements and the outcome of legal proceedings; and other risks and uncertainties listed in our filings with the Securities and
Exchange Commission (the “SEC”), including our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on August 22, 2023 and our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q filed with
the SEC on November 7, 2023 and February 12, 2024, to which your attention is directed. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements,
which speak only as of the date hereof, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise these forward-looking statements to reflect new information or events, except
as required by law. Additionally, the 2023 Sustainability Report contains data and metrics that have not been audited.
