Corporate Responsibility Report 2020
PLUS
T H E P O W E R O F
When We Come Together, Great Things Happen
T A B L E O F C O N T E N T S
3 WEST + PERSEVERANCE
3 A Letter from Our President & CEO
4 ABOUT WEST
5 NOTABLE AWARDS & EXTERNAL ORGANIZATIONS
6 MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT
7 WEST + PLANET
8 Environment
10 WEST + PEOPLE
11 Health & Safety
13 Diversity & Inclusion/Talent Acquisition
16 Philanthropy
18 WEST + GOVERNANCE
19 Quality
21 Compliance & Ethics
23 Enterprise Risk Management (ERM)
24 THANK YOU ESSENTIAL WORKERS
25 UNGC
26 GRI INDEX
+
W E S T P E R S E V E R A N C E
A Letter from Our President & CEO
At West, we are guided by our Core Values of required elevated safety measures and a greater focus We continue to reaffirm our commitment to live by
Passion for Customers, Leadership in Quality and on the overall health and well-being of our team. Our our One West Team value that calls on us to respect
One West Team. These values were top of mind top priorities throughout 2020 were to 1) keep our team each other, drive collaboration, and to embrace diversity
in 2020 as we worked to serve as a critical link in members safe and 2) ensure an uninterrupted supply of and inclusion in our workplace. I am proud of the strides
the supply of vaccines, treatments and diagnostics products to our customers. We recognized the incredible we have made in this area– from new team members
WATCH VIDEO
needed to battle the COVID-19 pandemic. These stress that the pandemic caused so many people to hired at all levels in our manufacturing sites to the
same values are at the heart of our Environmental, experience, so we increased our communication to diverse representation on our Executive Leadership
Social and Governance (ESG) initiatives, which are check in often with team members to assess their needs, team at West.
embedded in our long-term business strategy and and offered enhanced mental health support services,
We were pleased to be recognized this year by a
recognition bonuses, and grants to offset childcare costs.
aligned within six key pillars: Compliance and Ethics,
number of organizations for our work in these and other
We also provided special COVID-pay for those missing
Diversity and Talent, Health and Safety, Philanthropy,
key areas of our CR strategy, including recognition
work due to the virus and needing to care for themselves
Environmental Sustainability, and Quality. in Barron’s as a Top 25 Performer of the 100 Most
or their family.
Sustainable Companies in America and in Investor’s
In 2019, we exceeded our initial 5-year ESG initiatives
Business Daily, where West ranked fourth among
The same team that worked so hard to deliver on our
in just three years and raised the bar higher with
the Top 50 Best ESG Companies. We will continue
promise to customers and the patients we serve also
Eric Green a new set of 5-year goals. In 2020, I am proud to
to strive to meet our stakeholders’ needs across all
President & CEO — Exton, PA say that we are off to a strong start to achieve these banded together as One West Team to give back to the
six pillars of our strategy, and the long-term goals
community throughout 2020. Team members who were
new goals, and we continue to make significant
we have put in place will allow us to continuously
“ At West, we are guided by unable to gather at work for group volunteer activities
progress with good momentum towards our stated
improve in this important area of our business.
stayed connected virtually to support local organizations.
our core values of Passion reduction goals for Waste, Energy and Water usage.
In addition, West team members increased their
You can read more about our progress against these West’s mission is to improve patient lives through
for Customers, Leadership
personal philanthropic donations, which were in turn
goals and other accomplishments in this annual the containment and delivery of injectable therapies.
in Quality and One West matched by the Herman O. West Foundation, by an
We have proudly served in this role for 98 years and
Corporate Responsibility (CR) Report. Later this
impressive 70% — a testament to our team members’
Team, and these values also intend to maintain and grow our presence well into
year, we will publish a supplement to this CR Report
generosity. At the corporate level, West announced an
the future with a commitment to ethically, socially
underpin our Corporate incorporating the SASB and Taskforce on Climate-
additional $1 million in grants to nonprofits making and environmentally sound business practices.
related Financial Disclosure (TCFD) ESG standards.
Responsibility strategy.”
important contributions during the COVID-19 pandemic,
Sincerely,
Also, of particular note in this challenging year, is the including the American Red Cross, the COVID-19
work our teams did to ensure team member safety and Solidarity Response Fund for WHO (World Health
support the unique needs of our communities. Team Organization), the American Nurses Foundation, No Kid
Eric M. Green
member safety has always been a critical element of Hungry and Philabundance, a food security organization
our strategy, and the onset and rise of the pandemic local to our headquarters in Exton, Pennsylvania. 3
WEST + PERSEVERANCE
A B O U T W E S T
Our Company
West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc. is Our Mission, Vision & Values extractables & leachables (E&L), particle and
container closure integrity analysis. Our Integrated
a leading provider of innovative, high- OUR MISSION
Solutions Program combines West’s high-quality
To contain and deliver injectable therapies
quality injectable solutions and services.
packaging and delivery products with our expert
that improve patient lives
As a trusted partner to established and
analytical testing, device manufacturing and
emerging drug developers, West helps OUR VISION assembly, regulatory expertise and more.
To be the world leader in the integrated
ensure the safe, effective containment
West’s Contract Manufacturing services offer
containment and delivery of injectable
and delivery of lifesaving and life- healthcare partners quality, safety and reliability in
medicines
injection molding, contract assembly and finished
enhancing medicines for patients. With
OUR VALUES packaging services. The West Contract Manufacturing
almost 10,000 team members across 50
• Passion for Customers team serves its partners’ needs by providing a single-
sites worldwide, West helps support our • Leadership in Quality source solution from product conceptualization
• One West Team through manufacturing and final packaging.
customers by delivering over 40 billion
WEST FACTS components and devices each year.
Our Products & Services Our Role in the COVID-19 Pandemic
20 Countries with West presence
Headquartered in Exton, Pennsylvania, West offers a unique combination of products West is supplying primary packaging components
and services, including proprietary packaging, for therapeutics used to treat COVID-19, as well
50 Locations and 25 Manufacturing Sites and in business for nearly a century,
containment and drug delivery products, as well as critical components that are included in some
West in its fiscal year 2020 generated
>100M Components Produced Daily as contract manufacturing, scientific insight and of the diagnostic kit products that are being used
over $2.15 billion in sales. West is traded technical expertise. West’s products range from to detect COVID-19 antibodies. The Company
$2.147B in Net Sales 2020
stoppers and seals for injectable packaging systems, is also providing high-quality components for
on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE:
to self-injection and reconstitution systems. Some the large-scale manufacture of the majority of
~10,000 Team Members Globally WST) and is included in the Standard &
of the Analytical Services that West offers include the COVID-19 vaccines being developed.
Poor’s 500 index.
4
WEST + PERSEVERANCE
2020
W E S T A W A R D S
In 2020, West was honored to be recognized by a number of organizations, industry associations and media
outlets. These awards serve as a testament to West’s commitment to supporting our communities, caring for
our environment, offering innovative products, and nurturing a culture of diversity and inclusion.
Top 25 Performer of 100 Named to S&P® 500 Faces of Philanthropy Award
Most Sustainable Companies Canine Partners for Life
in America Philadelphia Business Journal
Barron’s Named as S&P® 500
Dividend Aristocrat
Asia Pacific Bioprocessing
Ranked #4 in Top 50 Excellence Awards (ABEA)
Best ESG Companies Minority Business Leaders Award (Best Bioprocessing Supplier Award:
Investor’s Business Daily Silji Abraham Fill–Finish)
Philadelphia Business Journal
Medtech Ireland 2020
Partner of the Year CFO of the Year Award
Bernard Birkett
Philadelphia Business Journal
External
O R G A N I Z A T I O N I N V O L V E M E N T
West is an active member of many industry, trade and other collaborative organizations, which promotes
accountability and helps us stay connected and engaged with others in the industry.
5
M A T E R I A L I T Y A S S E S S M E N T
Our materiality assessment helps us identify
and prioritize the environmental, societal and
economic issues that are most important to
Equity Code of Conduct Product Quality
our business and our stakeholders. Through a
Inclusion
Hazardous & Biological Waste Diversity Corruption & Bribery survey of internal stakeholders and customers,
we were able to analyze the issues most relevant
Governance Body Composition Reputation
to our business growth and customers’ goals.
Leadership Commitment to ESG Practices Sustainable Growth Strategy
Data Privacy Health & Safety in the Workplace
To achieve this, we asked survey respondents to
Intellectual Property
assign value with relevance to the company in
Innovation Management Marketing Practices
mind, as opposed to which were the greatest issues
Supply Chain Management Engagement & Transparency
facing the world. Conducting this thorough analysis
Talent Attraction & Retention Water Consumption Customer Relationship Management
Employee Training & Continuing Education helps us move towards a more holistic approach
Access to Healthcare Risk & Crisis Management in our ESG strategy, and better identify where to
Compensation/Benefits Employment & Wealth Generated
focus our internal resources. This process also helps
Nonhazardous Waste Community Engagement & Philanthropy
increase our transparency and engagement with
Climate Strategy
Energy Efficiency & Consumption
Flexibility and Consideration of Employees customers and shareholders, a main goal of West’s.
Energy Procurement Greenhouse Gases & Air Pollutants
During Crises and Transitions
Our materiality assessment results are summarized
and plotted on the materiality matrix shown here,
with their position relative to the degree of internal
Land Use & Ecological Sensitivity and external stakeholder interest and potential
Research & Development for the Environment
business impact.
ecnatropmI
lanretnI
WEST + PERSEVERANCE
Customer Importance
6
+
W E S T P L A N E T
In this section of our Corporate As a result of West’s critical role in providing packaging Moving forward, whether we are facing a crisis or
components for COVID-related vaccines, therapeutics, in a period of calm, improving the positive impact,
Responsibility Report, you’ll read about
and diagnostic kits, we saw an unprecedented as well as reducing the negative impact we have
West’s commitment to our environment,
increase in production in 2020. Even through these on our environment through improvements in the
WATCH VIDEO and how each of us working together trying times we remained focused, and although the areas we feel we can have the greatest impact:
can make a difference in contributing to unplanned significant increase in production created CO2 emissions, waste and increased recycling, and
challenges, the impacts of the pandemic did not energy and water usage.
a sustainable future. As a company with
alter our commitment to our sustainability strategy.
the mission to improve patient lives,
We are happy to report that West is now a signatory
it stands to reason that we are equally
to the Task Force on Climate-related Financial
committed to a sustained investment
Disclosures (TCFD). By signing onto TCFD, West is
in creating a healthier environment. affirming our commitment to fiscal transparency
for our investors and customers, as well as being a
Steve Walton
leader in addressing the current climate emergency.
VP, HSE & Corporate Responsibility — Exton, PA
We aim to incorporate TCFD disclosures into our CR
Report over the next few years, and will be reporting
“ Together, we are working
in accordance with TCFD before the end of 2021.
to build a safer and more
sustainable world for
our business and our
communities.”
7
WEST + PLANET
E N V I R O N M E N T
West believes that, as a global Our Sustainability Program is designed to target
77.4% 3.86%
reductions in areas where we feel we can make the
organization, we have a duty and
Global Waste that was Energy Intensity Improvement in greatest impact: CO2 emissions, waste and increased
obligation to contribute to building a
Landfill Free in 2020 2020 when compared to 2019 recycling, as well as energy and water usage.
Improved from 52% in prior year healthier world and that each of us,
• O ur absolute CO2 emissions have continued to improve.
working together, can make a difference. West has a goal of reducing our absolute emissions
by 10% over 5 years (2019 – 2023). We realized an
We strive to be stewards of a sustainable
improvement of 1.1% on absolute emissions in 2020
1.1% 1.87%
future by factoring environmental over 2019, supported by an increase of renewable
energy being used at our manufacturing sites.
Reduction in Absolute Emissions Water Intensity Improvement in considerations into every aspect of our
2020 when compared to 2019 • W est’s six Contract Manufacturing sites recycled 84% of
business. We believe that sustainable their total waste in 2020. 77.4% of all global waste was
landfill free in 2020, an improvement from 52% in 2019.
practices are directly related to
• A lthough overall energy output increased because of
sustainable economic performance and
the increase in COVID-related production, our 2023
the creation of healthy communities. Energy Intensity goal improved by 3.86% in over the
previous year. This means that we are realizing a higher
output of product per unit of energy consumed.
The pandemic created many challenges for us in
• S imilarly, although we had higher water usage
2020, and while our top priority was keeping our
in 2020 as a result of increased production,
team members safe and healthy, we continued to
we achieved a 1.87% improvement in the water
maintain focus on our sustainability targets, even
intensity required to produce our products.
with the unplanned and unprecedented significant
increase in production needed to support our
customer’s critical COVID-related needs. Although
this production increase did require a higher overall
output in energy and water usage, we continued
Alignment with UNGC Sustainable Development Goals
improving our efficiencies, resulting in a higher
output of product per unit of energy and water used.
8
WEST + PLANET
E N V I R O N M E N T
(continued)
As a testament to our continued commitment
Cumulative Energy Intensity Reduction
to sustainability, in 2020 West was honored to 16%
WATCH VIDEO
achieve several accolades, including being named 14%
15%
12%
as a Top Performer of 100 Most Sustainable
10% 12%
Companies in America by Barron’s, and receiving 8.44%
8%
9%
a #4 ranking in Investor’s Business Daily Top 50
6%
4.76%
Best ESG Companies. In addition, we were pleased 4% 6%
to receive MSCI’s highest ESG Fund rating of 2% 3%
0.00%
0%
AAA — which places us as a leader within the top
2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
5% of the 93 companies within their healthcare
equipment and supplies industry category.
Keith Henderson
Global Facility Energy Manager — Dublin, Ireland 2019 – 2023 GOALS
“ I’m very proud of the role Reduce energy intensity by 15% Reduce water intensity by 10%
I play in supporting our local
Reduce absolute emissions by 10% Reduce waste-to-landfill by 90%
teams in their sustainability
commitment.”
9
+
W E S T P E O P L E
A Commitment to Our Team Members
Over the next several pages, you will read • S trengthening our Employee Assistance Program to ensure We know that building a sustainable future is
our team members and their families have confidential access
dependent upon ensuring equality and equity
about West’s social commitment and the
to a wide variety of free mental health services globally
for everyone — one cannot exist without the
values that drive us to support the safety
• P roviding flexibility with work arrangements as most of our
other. By ensuring our team members are
office-based team members were unexpectedly transitioned
WATCH VIDEO of our team members, embrace diversity uniquely valued and able to work in an inclusive
into work-from-home environments
and inclusion, develop and retain top environment, we enable our team members to
• I mplementing an equipment reimbursement program
develop and contribute their best every day.
talent, and give back to our communities. to ensure our team members had access to the supplies
and office equipment they needed to best set them up
Our corporate philanthropy program continued
for success while working from home
As the 2020 global health crisis created
to focus on key priorities, and despite the many
We also took the time to listen to our team and
daunting challenges, we continued to challenges faced as a result of the pandemic, our
conducted a 36-hour “Future of Work JAM” on our
team members continued to embrace our One
evolve our benefits programs to ensure we
intranet that was led by members of the Senior
West Team value, which was evident through their
were meeting our team members’ needs. Leadership Team in each of our geographic regions.
continued commitment to philanthropy, making
Annette Favorite The JAM was an opportunity for team members
generous donations of their time and resources.
Sr. VP and Chief Human Resources Officer — Exton, PA Our benefits promote the health and well-being of
around the globe to collaborate with each other,
our team members, and this pandemic provided us
share best practices, identify pain points, ask
“ We know that building the opportunity to demonstrate this commitment
senior leadership questions and ultimately help
a sustainable future is through a variety of benefits enhancements, which one another navigate through the pandemic.
varied by country and included:
dependent upon ensuring We saw excellent engagement at this event, with
over 3,000 comments submitted, allowing us to
equality for everyone — one • P roviding a total of 4 weeks paid time off for those who
needed to miss work to care for themselves or a family hear valuable feedback from our team members
cannot exist without the
member due to COVID-19
and enabling us to co-create our future.
other.”
• W aiving co-pays to provide coverage of COVID-19 related
Equally important, we continued to build our culture
treatment at no charge for team members or their dependents
that reflects the diversity of the world where we
• P roviding childcare support services, including financial
live and work, and inspires leadership, encourages
support, for team members whose childcare or primary
innovation, and welcomes everyone.
schools were temporarily shut down
10
WEST + PEOPLE
H E A L T H & S A F E T Y
The health and safety of our team Several of the important protocols create distractions that can lead to a decreased focus
at our sites included: on safety at work. We did see a slight increase in the
members is West’s top priority. Never
number of recordable incidents as compared to 2019.
has this commitment been more • R etained a Corporate Medical Advisor to review and
Enhanced initiatives put in place by global, regional
advise on all COVID-19 related protocols
WATCH VIDEO evident than throughout 2020, as and site HSE teams in the second half of 2020 resulted
• P erformed active screening for all team members
we initiated numerous programs to and visitors in a significant decrease in incidents for the fourth
quarter, a trend we have seen continue into 2021.
care for our team members and their • M andated wearing of masks while on company property
families in response to COVID-19. • E nhanced cleaning protocols With ongoing education, communication and
leadership support, we were able to retain our
Operating our global manufacturing • S taggered shift and break schedules and altered
concentration on safety, and continue in our planned
breakroom layouts to support physical distancing
network to maintain supply of critical
initiatives around Ergonomics, Hazard Identification
• I mplemented strict travel restrictions, including
components for the healthcare industry Programs and HSE Digitalization — all supporting
site-to-site visit restrictions as well as limited visits from
customers, vendors and contractors the HSE strategy of increasing our focus on leading
amid a pandemic required an intense
Detlef Guse
indicators and enhancing our strong culture of safety.
Director, HS&E, Europe — Eschweiler, Germany level of focus on health and safety. Because of these strict protocols, West was able to
keep our team members safe and maintain continuous
Maintaining a safe workplace begins with instilling
“ We continuously work every operations at all our global manufacturing sites.
In response to the pandemic, we implemented and supporting a culture of safety — each team
day to live up to the challenge a variety of onsite protocols, based on guidance member understands that they share the responsibility
At our sites, we focused on reducing the risk of
of keeping our team members by the Centers for Disease Control (CDC), the for safety. Our Health, Safety and Environment (HSE)
incidents, injuries and exposure to health hazards
World Health Organization (WHO), and a variety and Sustainability Policy is displayed prominently at
safe and healthy.” for all team members, visitors and contractors, and
of other governmental health authorities. From all sites and reinforces the expectations of our team
we designed operating protocols for our facilities
the earliest days of the pandemic, our Crisis members and visitors: everyone plays a role in our HSE
to provide a safe and healthy work environment.
Management Team and Pandemic Preparedness and Sustainability process.
Team met several times per week to provide West We realized that the unprecedented and daunting
Operations the best guidance, information and challenges being faced by our team members, both at
standards to allow work to continue safely. work and in their personal lives, had the potential to
11
WEST + PEOPLE
H E A L T H & S A F E T Y
(continued)
To help drive individual accountability, in 2020 2020 HIGHLIGHTS
we continued to hold our annual global Safety Week,
12-month accident-free milestone — in 2020, our Asia Pacific Region
much of which included physically distanced and
sites achieved a 12-month milestone with no recordable incidents for
virtual activities. Although safety is a focus all year
our sites in Qingpu, China, Jurong, Singapore, and Sri City, India
long, this dedicated week gave the opportunity
to target specific key safety-related topics, such as
Bodmin, UK site celebrates six years with zero recordable incidents
Ergonomics, Hazard Identification and ongoing
COVID-related health and safety topics. Zero safety recordable incidents in 2020 at our manufacturing sites
in Sri City, India, Bodmin and St. Austell, UK, Horsens, Denmark,
As we continue to adapt to an ever-changing
and Kovin, Serbia
environment, our first priority remains the same —
the health and safety of our team members. We will Bodmin and St. Austell, UK sites honored with the British Safety
continue to engage our team members in safety- Council’s International Safety Award
related programs, focus on hazard identification and
other preventative measures, and digitize our HSE
platforms and management systems, with the goal
of further reducing workplace incidents and enabling
our team members to go home safely at the end
of their day.
12
WEST + PEOPLE
D I V E R S I T Y & I N C L U S I O N
West’s Pledge
West has a long-standing commitment across the organization. The population of senior Recruiting & Retaining Top Talent
leaders who are women and/or minorities is 39%.
to diversity and inclusion (D&I), which is Diversity is a major focus of our recruiting strategy,
This year we are deepening our focus on our team
with success measures implemented to ensure we are
inherent in our Core Value of One West
members’ experience. We want all to feel valued
attracting and hiring diverse talent. One of our top
Team. We are in the business of helping
and respected and able to grow and contribute.
priorities is building a diverse and inclusive workforce
our customers bring new medicines where team members are respected and feel
West prohibits and does not tolerate discrimination
confident in bringing their unique ideas to the table.
and treatments that advance life — for
or harassment of any team member, customer or
We know that a greater variety of experiences and
people of every background, race and service provider because of age, race, color, religion,
viewpoints leads to stronger business performance.
sex, ancestry, national origin, military service or
belief. Our mission is an important
application, marital status, citizenship status, physical
Throughout 2020 we partnered with a number of
reminder that we must continue to
or mental disability, genetic information, sexual
organizations to support our diversity in recruiting
listen and learn from one another with orientation, gender identity or expression, or other
goals. Working with organizations such as Women
protected characteristic under applicable laws.
safe and inclusive environments to in Tech, Wounded Warriors, Society of Women
Engineers, and Young Men and Women in Charge
create the path to a better future. The philanthropic areas that we support reflect our
helped ensure we are drawing talent from a diverse
strong commitment to advancing D&I. For example,
pool of applicants. Several of our sites also participate
West’s Chief Executive Officer and executive some areas that we support are apprenticeship
in a work release hiring program, which has a
leadership team review D&I objectives throughout the programs and other STEM opportunities for young
positive impact on the lives of formerly incarcerated
year to ensure continuous focus and improvement. people from underrepresented communities. West
individuals and their families, and is also shown
Today, 30% of West’s Executive Leadership Team also provides ongoing support to organizations
to lower the recidivism rates among prisons.
are women, with 50% being women and/or people focused on racial equality; for example, the UNCF,
of color. With the recent retirement of one director, which supports minority students who are earning
We can measure our success in this area by setting
West’s Board of Directors is comprised of 20% women. college degrees. West has also donated to the Equal
recruiting diversity goals around strengthening
In searches for new directors, West includes diversity Justice Initiative, a Montgomery, Alabama nonprofit
relationships with external organizations, presenting
as a key factor. West has made great strides over that provides legal representation to prisoners who
a diverse slate of candidates for each open position,
the past several years in sourcing team members may have been wrongly convicted of crimes and/
and increasing the number of diverse hires.
from diverse backgrounds for leadership roles or those who may have been denied a fair trial.
13
WEST + PEOPLE
D I V E R S I T Y & I N C L U S I O N
(continued)
WATCH VIDEO
We continue to make strides in providing a Team Member Experience and cultivate career growth. Our EBRG structure
more flexible work environment for our global has three EBRGs — Women’s Initiatives Network
Our One West Team truly touches every part of the
team members as they support their families, (WIN), Multinational Organization Supporting
globe. We are a group of individuals with diverse
an effort that was accelerated by the COVID-19 an Inclusive Culture (MOSAIC), and Veterans &
backgrounds coming together to collaborate on the
pandemic. Throughout 2020, we expanded Allies Leading for Organizational Results (VALOR).
common goal of bringing about a healthier world.
parental leave, transitional leave and alternate With our Executive Team’s enthusiastic support,
We understand that to help retain these talented
work arrangements, including our work from in 2021 our EBRGs will be revitalized, and exciting
team members, we must continue embedding D&I
home policy that many of our team members have new programs are expected to be developed.
strategies across the entire employee experience.
taken advantage of. As many of the pandemic
Some of these programs include the onboarding
Holly Eck
We recognize our responsibility to continue building
lockdowns are ending, we remain committed to
Sr. Manager, HR — St. Petersburg, FL of new team members, management training,
on these efforts to ensure all team members are
providing valuable remote work opportunities
succession planning, affirmative action plans,
fully supported throughout their time at West.
Heather Wickham for our team members where possible, given the
recruitment materials and global mentoring.
We will continue to work hard at creating new
Assembly Machine Operator — St. Petersburg, FL
demands of their individual job responsibilities.
opportunities to cultivate an environment where
The events of 2020 provided some valuable
“ We foster an environment At all levels of the organization, we are committed our team members are respected and can bring
opportunities to engage as a team on important
to recruiting and retaining team members from all their authentic selves to work each day.
where people feel they can topics. Through a series of internal communications,
backgrounds that can help inform our perspective on
we asked team members to reflect, learn and act
bring their authentic selves
building a healthier world. In 2020, 43% of all new
on injustices that they encounter in their own lives.
to work every day.”
hires within the United States came from a minority
West also provided resource packs to guide team
background. Today, 43% of our total United States
members’ conversations with their families.
workforce comes from minority backgrounds, and
37% of our global team members are female. A In addition, team members have the opportunity to
key aspect of our D&I strategy is ensuring that our join our Employee Business Resource Groups (EBRGs)
representation metrics continue to improve every year. to connect with team members around the globe
Alignment with UNGC Sustainable Development Goals
14
WEST + PEOPLE
D I V E R S I T Y & I N C L U S I O N
(continued)
Diversity Drives Innovation
WOMEN AT WEST
37%
of West’s workforce is female. 53 20
DIFFERENT LANGUAGES COUNTRIES
27% spoken by West team members with West presence
of executive roles worldwide at West are held by women.
33%
of STEM degrees worldwide at West are held by women.
37% ~10,000
RACE & ETHNICITY AT WEST
WEST MANAGEMENT POSITIONS TEAM MEMBERS WORLDWIDE
44% held by female or US underrepresented 12% APAC, 42% EMEA,
minority groups 44% North America, 3% South America
of West’s employees in the US represent traditionally
underrepresented minority groups.
23%
of executive roles in the US are held by traditionally
underrepresented minority groups.
1,668 2,922
36%
ADVANCED DEGREES STEM DEGREES
of STEM degrees in the US are held by traditionally
underrepresented minority groups. held by West team members held by West team members
15
WEST + PEOPLE
P H I L A N T H R O P Y
A defining characteristic of West is our West targets philanthropic activities and local Throughout the pandemic, West has stood by the
WATCH VIDEO charities that align with our mission in the focus side of communities to combat the consequences
commitment to put people first — our
areas of: children, people with disabilities, of the virus. West has donated over $1 million to
customers, their patients, our team
healthcare, and education (with a focus on global and local organizations providing COVID-19
members and others in need, especially
STEM – Science, Technology, Engineering relief, including the United Nations Foundation,
during challenging times. West is proud and Math). The Company’s charitable giving the American Red Cross, the Food Bank in
framework is separated into three tiers: Waterford, Ireland, and Banco de Alimentos in
to stand by the side of the communities
Puerto Rico. In 2020, Corporate and Foundation
where our team members live and work 1. C orporate Giving through direct charitable
giving reached approximately $3.2 million,
gifts made by West Pharmaceutical
with impactful philanthropic programs. including the $1 million COVID-19 donation.
Services, Inc. and its subsidiaries;
Julie D’Ascenzo In 2020, the Herman O. West Foundation awarded
Account Manager, Biologics — Exton, PA 2. T he Herman O. West Foundation, an
20 scholarships to the children/dependents of team
independently managed charitable entity
members in the United States, as well as $42,000
“ Helping others with time, that meets the requirements of 501(c)(3) of
in grants to team members in need through our
the US Internal Revenue Code, which awards
talent or money can mean so Employee Emergency Fund.
scholarships and matching gifts; and
much to someone in need.”
Team members are at the heart of our philanthropic
3. W est without Borders*, our team member-
programs at West. Throughout our 98-year company
led giving program that has raised millions
history, our team members have generously
of dollars since its inception in 2004.
donated their resources and time to help support
Alignment with UNGC Sustainable Development Goals
* West without Borders is not affiliated with Doctors Without Borders®, which is a registered
16
service mark of Bureau International de Médecins Sans Frontières.
WEST + PEOPLE
P H I L A N T H R O P Y
(continued)
those in need in their local communities. Their In recognition of our commitment to philanthropy,
enthusiasm for giving back breathes meaning West was proud to receive several awards in
into our Core Value of One West Team. 2020. Notably, West was awarded with a Faces of
Philanthropy award from the Philadelphia Business
In a uniquely challenging year in history, our
Journal, honoring our ongoing partnership with
One West Team did not waver in serving their
Canine Partners for Life. Thank you to our One
communities. Their resolve was strengthened as they
West Team for your humbling generosity and
saw the direct and immediate impacts of their efforts
dedication you have shown this year to ensure that
to help families in need. In 2020, team member
our philanthropic programs continue to thrive.
donations increased by 70% over 2019. One example
where our team members came together to help
others was our annual food drive. They collected
tens of thousands of pounds of food, as charities
and food banks around the world experienced
increased demand for life-sustaining supplies.
2020 HIGHLIGHTS
In 2020, West introduced Dollars for Doers, in
$1M in donations targeting COVID-19 response efforts
which team members who volunteer at a West-
sponsored event or capstone charity can earn 70% increase in team member donations
funds to be donated to the charities of their choice.
$42,000 in grants to our team members in need through our
We are excited for this volunteering program to
Employee Emergency Fund
ramp up now following many of the COVID-19
lockdowns, and we continue engaging our team
~20,000 pounds of food donated during our annual food drive
members in virtual volunteering opportunities
where possible. West has also engaged in efforts to
expand many of these programs beyond the US.
17
+
W E S T G O V E R N A N C E
Strong Corporate Governance is a Our governance structure promotes accountability
and ethical conduct, and is designed to ensure
fundamental principle at West, and we
the long-term success of our business supported
strive to ensure we are maintaining the
by our Enterprise Risk Management, business
WATCH VIDEO highest standards of quality, integrity continuity and cybersecurity strategies.
and respect for our team members,
Our governance accountability structure, which
our customers, our shareholders,
is guided by our Executive Compliance Oversight
and the patients we serve. We hold Committee, is designed to foster a consistent
approach to conducting business, and enables
ourselves and our business partners,
our business and empowers our team members
vendors and suppliers to the highest
to operate with integrity all day, every day.
standards, guided by our Values and
our Code of Business Conduct.
Ryan Metz
Associate General Counsel — Exton, PA
“ Our accountability structure
enables our business and
empowers our team members
to operate with integrity all
day, every day.”
18
WEST + GOVERNANCE
Q U A L I T Y
Our Core Value of Leadership in Quality This commitment took on refreshed meaning
in 2020 when West adapted to partner with
is the backbone of every decision
customers on COVID-19 solutions, as well as meet
we make at West. We partner with
increased demand for all products. West’s Quality
WATCH VIDEO our customers in protecting millions team initiated several actions to ensure that the
of patients as they receive critical business maintained its state of compliance
and met our customer requirements:
medicines. At West, this quality focus
• Added staff to support expanded operations
includes excellence in manufacturing,
• Accelerated product transfers to leverage network capacity
scientific and technical expertise, and
• I nitiated qualification of new equipment, warehouses,
management. A Patient First Focus
building expansions
is part of West’s DNA, and we take
• N otified customers on product moves and changes
our responsibility to maintain patient within the manufacturing sites
Lance Xu
• M anaged supplier quality as they ramped up production
Director of Operations — Qingpu, China safety very seriously. As you walk
to meet increased demand
through our global manufacturing
“ Every team member must In addition, pandemic restrictions and isolation
sites, you can find the saying “Every
remember that everything of the manufacturing sites drove the creation of a
Dose, Every Time — 100% Commitment”
Remote Audit program. West hosts hundreds of
they do every day has an
in multiple languages, reminding customer audits in a year, along with notified body
impact on our patient’s lives.”
audits, which are required to maintain our ISO
team members of our pledge.
certifications. The Remote Audit program allows
customers to view the required information and
interface with the site teams so that the compliance
requirement of audits can be achieved.
Alignment with UNGC Sustainable Development Goals
19
WEST + GOVERNANCE
Q U A L I T Y
(continued)
A key metric in monitoring our process quality is In 2020, two new groups were formed in our Quality
Elastomer Manufacturer-Related Defects
Cost of Poor Quality (COPQ), which captures scrap, function, Digital Quality and Design Quality. The
1.40%
rejects, rework, customer returns/credits, and yield Digital Quality team was formed to support West’s
1.20%
losses. In addition to pandemic-related activities, Digital Transformation. The Design Quality team
1.00%
the team continued to drive COPQ initiatives to was created to continue providing a focused support
0.80%
decrease the overall level of COPQ as a percentage of Quality for the design and development of
0.60%
of Cost of Goods Manufactured (COGM) in 2020. West products. By uniting under one group within
0.40%
West’s COPQ in 2020 achieved a 13% reduction Quality, the team will harmonize on processes
0.20%
over the previous year (6.0% versus 6.9%). When and resources to support West’s R&D activities.
0.00%
compared to external benchmarking (measured 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Actual Actual Target Target Target
as a percentage of sales), West has surpassed the
Progress has been made towards our goal of a 10% YOY
industry average of 4.2% to a level of 3.6% in 2020.
reduction in manufacturing-related defects, with a 12%
reduction from 2019 to 2020.
The theme of West’s Global Quality Week in 2020 was
COPQ, to emphasize the importance of decreasing
2019 – 2023 GOALS
COPQ across the organization. Team members from
all functions learned about COPQ as a method to
Year-Over-Year 10% Reduction in Manufacturing-Related Defects
focus on opportunities for improvement, quantify
the financial impact of waste and inefficiency, Customer Response Rate of 10 Days or Less
and highlight to management the needs of the
Reduction in Out-of-Specification (OOS) Customer Complaints of
organization. Our One West Team connected
10% Each Year
globally to discuss these topics through a series
of virtual events and interactive opportunities.
15% Reduction in Cost of Poor Quality
20
WEST + GOVERNANCE
C O M P L I A N C E & E T H I C S
As a company committed to building Code of Business Conduct West conducted its annual Code training and
and Internal Education recertification process in 2020, which requires team
a healthier world, West is proud of
members to undergo training on several topics
At West, we believe that Compliance is everyone’s
its uncompromising adherence to its
covered in the Code and review and accept the
responsibility. Team members in all functions and roles
WATCH VIDEO ethical principles and values, which Company’s expectations delineated in the Code
are responsible for adhering to our core values every
serve to preserve our culture of integrity. day as they work together to improve patient lives. related to ethical behavior. In 2020, our training
West’s Code of Business Conduct (“Code”), available in completion and Code recertification rate was 99%,
The safety and well-being of our team
aligning with our typical high completion percentages.
multiple languages on WestPharma.com and West’s
members, shareholders, customers
company intranet, serves as a statement of our culture
In November 2020, West held its annual Compliance
and patients around the world are our
and sets forth the expectations for our global One
and Ethics Awareness Week, with the theme of
first priority, so we proactively work West Team for their interactions with each other and
“Compliance in Focus — Compliance Week 20/20.”
our stakeholders.
towards achieving the highest standards West recognized that the COVID-19 pandemic
brought monumental shifts to our team members’
of quality, integrity and respect. The Code compels team members to report their
Joyce Zhou
lives, which understandably challenged the ability to
concerns using any of several reporting avenues
Sr. Director, HR, Asia Pacific — Qingpu, China
maintain focus. Throughout Compliance Week, team
and prohibits retaliation for reports made in good
members around the globe engaged in discussions
faith. Those reporting choices include the team
“ Our mission to improve
on three areas particularly relevant in 2020 — Trade
member’s manager or any other manager at the
patient lives requires each
Compliance, Cybersecurity and Speaking Up. The
Company. Team members can seek help from
of us to behave in an ethical pandemic led to stricter border controls in 2020 and
Human Resources, the Compliance and Ethics Office
manner at all times.” new considerations for Trade Compliance. Meanwhile,
or the Law Department. West also provides the
option to report anonymously through its Integrity Cybersecurity, which we address separately below,
Helpline, toll free or online, available 24/7 from became even more crucial as organizations combatted
COVID-19 related cyberattacks. Lastly, West wanted
anywhere in the world in multiple languages.
to reinforce the importance of Speaking Up, especially
Alignment with UNGC Sustainable Development Goals
21
WEST + GOVERNANCE
C O M P L I A N C E & E T H I C S
(continued)
for many of our team members who were adjusting many others throughout the world. The number of
to working remotely. Our global sites hosted both jurisdictions where data privacy laws have been or will
virtual and in-person, socially distanced, executive be implemented is constantly increasing. Protecting
and guest speaking events, games, trainings and personal data will continue to be a key initiative in the
small group discussions. Team member attendance at future, and West is expanding resources dedicated
events presented during Compliance Week reached to its data privacy program and educating team
unprecedented numbers. members on protecting against cyber threats.
In the past year, West has expanded its Compliance Compliance Oversight
and Ethics training opportunities to empower team
In 2020, West continued to reinforce its efforts to
members to engage on topics related to our culture
build and maintain a culture of integrity through
of Compliance. We shared frequent communications
its Compliance and Ethics Program governance.
on the importance of Speaking Up, reminders on the
Our Executive Compliance Oversight Committee
non-retaliation policy and available reporting avenues,
(ECOC), chaired by West’s Chief Compliance
and lessons learned on the benefits of Speaking Up.
Officer and comprised of all members of West’s
Specific resources and trainings were provided for
Leadership Team, continued to provide strategic
people managers on promoting an open-door culture
direction for our Compliance activities and ensure
where communication, feedback, and discussion
regular reporting to the Audit Committee of
about any matter of importance is encouraged.
our Board of Directors. With guidance from the
ECOC, our business unit Compliance committees
Data Privacy
support our global Compliance structure and
West takes its critical responsibility to secure the
its corresponding policies and procedures to
personal data of its customers, team members and
support our team members in acting ethically
other stakeholders very seriously. We have programs
in accordance with West’s high standards.
and processes in place to maintain adherence to all
applicable data privacy regulations, including the
European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation,
the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018 and
22
WEST + GOVERNANCE
E N T E R P R I S E R I S K M A N A G E M E N T
& Business Continuity
Our Enterprise Risk Management health and safety of our team members; and second, Cybersecurity
to continue to deliver the containment and delivery
program (ERM) ensures appropriate Maintaining strong cybersecurity at West is part of
components our customers require to administer our commitment to protect the critical data of our
Risk Identification and Mitigation, Crisis
the life-saving drugs they produce. Throughout the customers, team members, and other stakeholders.
Management, Business Continuity
pandemic we were able to achieve both priorities 2020 was a unique year for cybersecurity, as the focus
and Disaster Recovery Plans are all in without disruption to normal operations. on fighting COVID-19 and the rapid move to remote
work left organizations vulnerable to sophisticated
place, linked and regularly monitored
Our established corporate business continuity
cybercrime. West responded to these increased
to facilitate organizational resilience. plan and crisis management team was activated attacks by proactively educating team members on
early in the pandemic to ensure we were able to how to recognize threats through global Cybersecurity
This includes active engagement
meet our top priorities. This structure, led by our Awareness speaker events, a simulated phishing
in monitoring enterprise-critical
Sr. Director of ERM & Security, consists of global attack and other ongoing communications.
risks and mitigation strategies with Crisis Management and Pandemic teams, as well
One key cybersecurity initiative in 2020 was the
as regional, and local operational teams reporting
Board of Director oversight. Our ERM
implementation of West’s Zero Trust Network,
into the Crisis Management and Executive Teams.
framework ensures our capability to where Zscaler Private Access and Internet Access was
In addition, West retained a Corporate Medical
deployed across the enterprise to lessen the risk of
continue the delivery of products and Advisor to review and advise on all COVID-19 related
bringing remote users on to West’s network, prevent
procedures and protocols. These teams met on a
services at acceptable predefined
data breaches, and protect against hidden threats in
regular cadence, all working interdependently to
levels following any disruption. encrypted traffic. In addition, West’s cybersecurity
ensure our operating strategies were best aligned to
team engaged in a network segmentation initiative
enable our business to continue its critical operations.
to enforce security and access policies to prevent
In 2020, business continuity plans faced significant
unauthorized devices on the West network.
stress as COVID-19 posed unprecedented global
West’s continued investment in and emphasis on
challenges. The pandemic unfolded with little warning,
effective business continuity management provides Also in 2020, West began collaborating with the
and unlike many other crises that have a more defined
a solid framework for further building organizational Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and
endpoint, nobody could have anticipated the scope
resilience with the capability of an effective response Cybersecurity & Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA)
and duration of this pandemic. From the beginning,
that safeguards the interests of our stakeholders, to conduct Cybersecurity Assessments and gain insight
we defined two very clear priorities: first, to protect the
reputation, brand, and value-creating activities. into our operations and cybersecurity capabilities.
23
T H A N K Y O U E S S E N T I A L W O R K E R S !
At West, we have always known that all our team In the midst of the pandemic in 2020, we ran a
members are essential. The commitment and photo campaign that encouraged all team members
dedication of our team members to continue working to submit photos to thank their colleagues — or
among all the challenges throughout the pandemic “essential workers” — whether they were working
made their essential work even more evident. at one of our manufacturing sites, in a lab, at
an office location, or working remotely.
24
+
W E S T S T R A T E G Y
Corporate Sustainability Initiative
West is pleased to align our strategies and By incorporating the Ten Principles of the United Corporate and organizational success requires
operations with universal principles on human Nations Global Compact into strategies, policies stable economies and healthy, skilled and
rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption, and and procedures, and establishing a culture of educated workers, which in turn increases
take actions that advance societal goals. Corporate integrity, we are not only upholding our basic brand trust and investor support.
sustainability starts with a value system and a responsibilities to people and the planet, but
principles-based approach to doing business. also setting the stage for long-term success.
This means operating in ways that meet fundamental Our five-year corporate responsibility goals, running
responsibilities in the areas of human rights, from 2019 – 2023, align with our Company’s
labor, environment and anti-corruption. As a strategy as well as an alignment with the United
responsible Company, we enact the same values Nations Sustainable Development Goals.
and principles wherever we have a presence.
UNGC SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS
25
+
W E S T A C C O U N T A B I L I T Y
West Pharmaceutical Services 2021 GRI Index1
Year 2019 2020 Year 2019 2020
GRI 302-1 ENERGY WITHIN THE ORGANISATION2,3 GRI 305-4 GHG EMISSIONS INTENSITY2,3
Thermal Fuel consumption by type (non-renewable) Emissions Intensity 3.10 2.89
GRI 305-5 REDUCTION OF GHG EMISSIONS2,3
Scope 1 (Thermal) (kWh) 161,424,224 163,008,212
Electrical Energy Consumed (non-renewable) Procurement of Green Energy (Tons CO ) 13,642 12,322
2
Scope 2 (Generator Distillate Fuel Oil 4) (kWh) 1,298,526 1,505,281 (Scope 1) Energy Management / Facilities Projects 670 681
Scope 2 (Electrical) (kWh) 225,856,656 231,118,316 (Scope 2) Energy Management / Facilities Projects 457 1,182
Energy Consumed (renewable) Total 14,769 14,185
GRI 306-3 WASTE GENERATED3
Solar Energy Scope 1 Consumed (kWh) 16,455 16,655
Scope 2 (Electrical) Purchased Renewable (kWh) 35,461,859 35,677,212 Total Weight of Waste Generated (lbs.) 24,950,000 29,926,303
Total Energy Consumption (kWh) 424,057,720 431,325,676 GRI 306-4 WASTE DIVERTED FROM DISPOSAL2
GRI 302-3 ENERGY INTENSITY2,3 Total Weight of Waste Diverted From Disposal (lbs.) 12,974,000 23,174,012
GRI 303-3 WATER WITHDRAWAL2
Energy Intensity Factor 10.75 10.33
GRI 302-4 REDUCTIONS ACHIEVED AS A DIRECT RESULT OF CONSERVATION AND EFFICIENCY INITIATIVES2,3 Total Water Withdrawal (Gal.) 240,622,000 270,560,909
Scope 1 (Gas/Oil) (kWh) 3,700,439 3,760,219 GRI 403-9 WORK RELATED INJURIES2
Scope 2 (Electrical) (kWh) 1,413,043 3,090,122 The number of fatalities as a result of work-related injury 0 0
Total Reductions in Consumption (kWh) 5,113,482 6,850,341 The rate of recordable work-related injuries 0.7 0.94
GRI 305-1 DIRECT (SCOPE 1) GHG EMISSIONS2,3 The rate of recordable work-related injuries with lost time 0.33 0.21
Scope 1 (Gas) (Metric Tons CO Equivalent) 29,256 29,543
2
GRI 305-2 INDIRECT DIRECT (SCOPE 2) GHG EMISSIONS2,3
1 All information reported is believed accurate at the time of inclusion and based upon assumptions, most of which are described in this report.
Prior year data may be updated with new information but the impacts are immaterial unless specifically noted in the report.
Scope 2 (Generator Distillate Fuel Oil 4) (Metric Tons CO Equivalent) 350 405
2 2 West’s baselines are based on 2018 Scope 1&2 Energy consumption data and 2018 absolute CO2 emissions. This baseline was chosen as 2018
is the starting year of the 5 year goals with the most up-to-date and accurate information to help establish a firm baseline.
Scope 2 (Electrical) (Metric Tons CO Equivalent) 92,573 90,911
2 3 B ased on availability of data and the way West manages its business, some regional sales offices, administration facilities, technology centers,
Total CO2 Emissions (Metric Tons CO2) 122,178 120,858 distribution centers and any subsidiaries may be excluded. Any exclusions contained within this report are not believed to have a material impact.
4 Emission factors conversion source: The Climate Registry, US EPA, USA EPA egrid, International Energy Agency (IEA)
26
West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc.
530 Herman O. West Drive
Exton, PA 19341 USA
610.594.2900
www.westpharma.com
@westpharma West Pharmaceutical Services
@westpharma @westatwork
Copyright © 2021 West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc.
All trademarks and registered trademarks used in this report are the property of West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc
or its subsidiaries, in the United States and other jurisdictions, unless noted otherwise.
11577 • 0621
