FOCUS
FORWARD
2 0 2 3 E S G R E P O R T
TABLE OF CONTENTS
VISION FORWARD PLANET FORWARD PROCESS FORWARD
4 LETTER FROM RYAN METZ, ESG LEADER, 10 CLIMATE STRATEGY 23 RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN
ASSOCIATE GENERAL COUNSEL
12 WASTE IN OPERATIONAL PROCESSES 24 HEALTH & SAFETY
5 ABOUT WEST
14 R&D FOR THE ENVIRONMENT 25 QUALITY
6 AWARDS & ORGANIZATIONAL INVOLVEMENT
26 COMPLIANCE & ETHICS
7 OUR ESG STRATEGY
PEOPLE FORWARD 28 BUSINESS CONTINUITY
8 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY INITIATIVE
16 TALENT ATTRACTION 29 CYBERSECURITY
17 TALENT RETENTION
30 GRI INDEX
18 DIVERSITY, EQUITY & INCLUSION
20 PHILANTHROPY
2023 ESG REPORT 2
VISION
FORWARD
Our ESG strategy is grounded by
our purpose to improve patient
lives and ultimately create a better,
healthier world for generations
to come. We are pleased to share
the new targets we have set for
2030 and our priorities to move
this vision forward.
2023 ESG REPORT 3
VISION FORWARD
FOCUSED ON OUR FUTURE
A LETTER FROM
For a More Sustainable and Safer World Ryan Metz
ESG Leader, Associate General Counsel
At West, each day we are focused The year 2023 concluded our five-year environmental We are pleased that at the conclusion of 2023, West is In addition, data enables West to have more effective
goals. As we look back and report on our achievement, 78.8% landfill free, slightly below our goal of 85%, but partnerships with customers, legislators and the broader
on our purpose — to improve patients’
we are already focused ahead on our new set of goals committed to reach our 100% target by 2030. In addition, community for sustainability and social initiatives.
lives. This mindset drives everything we and actions through 2030, which are highlighted in we have continued to focus on our people, and are pleased Through these partnerships, we look forward to realizing
this report. to report a consistent improvement in safety metrics as and delivering on opportunities for shared ESG goals.
do — it is a daily commitment to sustainable
well as continuing to build our diverse workforce.
With the COVID-19 pandemic, the past five years In addition to our six ESG priorities, we will continue
business practices and having a positive presented unprecedented challenges to our business. Planet, People and Processes to focus on several key areas that impact our people,
We are still proud to play a critical role in the containment customers and the patients that we jointly serve. These
While it’s important to have a retrospective outlook, the
impact on our communities. Improving
and delivery of COVID-19 vaccines and other life-saving areas of focus include:
future actions we have set for 2030 are founded on six
lives is why we prioritize health and safety therapies. However, the unexpected pressure on our priorities identified through our strategy setting process. 1. Quality
operations during the pandemic caused by a historic
This process includes input from several key stakeholders 2. Health and Safety
and offer a sense of well-being to our team
increase in product demand resulted in a significant
including our Executive Leadership Team (ELT) and Board 3. Compliance and Ethics
adjustment and unplanned increase in energy and
members through a diverse and thriving of Directors, and most importantly, our customers. As a 4. Cybersecurity
water consumption.
result, our Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) 5. Risk Mitigation
workplace. We understand that with our
Despite this unplanned energy use, including additional goals have cross-alignment with corporate financial goals, 6. Philanthropy
purpose at the forefront, we are committed energy used to support multiple manufacturing site human resource priorities and value-to-customer needs.
I am pleased to share the progress we have made and
expansion projects, we are happy to report that we
Our Six ESG Priorities (See page 7) the direction we are taking. Our Executive Leadership
to much more — we’re improving life by
exceeded our GHG emissions reduction target of 10%
Team and Board of Directors are committed to prioritizing
1. Climate Strategy
by just over 3.6% to achieve 13.6%. With 2018 as our
focusing on the world around us. West’s ESG performance and embedding it into our
2. Waste in Operational Processes
baseline year, our goal was to reduce absolute emissions
enterprise strategy. I am confident we have a collective
3. R&D for the Environment
by 10%, so we exceeded our goal for 2018–2023. The
understanding of our responsibility and the value our
4. Responsible Supply Chain
post-COVID pandemic reduction in sales did impact our
new six 2030 ESG priorities will provide.
5. Talent Diversity & Attraction
ability to achieve our energy efficiency target, as you
6. Talent Engagement & Retention Our work is not yet done; there is more to assess, more
will see detailed in this report. However, we remain
to drive forward and more to learn. We also know there
dedicated to achieving the target and accelerating our One of the most important areas of focus for West moving
are likely to be unforeseen challenges, but we will always
progress in this area. forward is on the data collection and management
remain focused on the advancement of people, and a
process, grounded by the Science Based Targets initiative
more sustainable and safer world.
(SBTi). Leveraging more data allows us to have a laser
focus on forward-looking and quantifiable actions.
2023 ESG REPORT 4
VISION FORWARD
ABOUT WEST WEST FACTS
West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc. is Every day over 10,000 team members come to West’s Analytical Services includes extractables and
50+ / 25
work for West, and we are proud to be a leader for leachables, particle analysis, and container closure
a leading provider of innovative, high-
the next generation of advanced pharmaceutical integrity analysis.
50+ LOCATIONS WITH
quality injectable solutions and services. packaging and delivery solutions.
In addition, West’s Contract Manufacturing services 25 MANUFACTURING SITES
As a trusted partner to established and West works by the side of our customers from offer healthcare partners quality, safety and
concept to patient to develop products that reliability in injection molding, contract assembly
emerging drug developers, West helps
promote the efficiency, reliability and safety of and finished packaging services. The West Contract
the world’s pharmaceutical drug supply. West Manufacturing team serves its partners’ needs
ensure the safe, effective containment
offers proprietary packaging, containment and by providing a single-source solution from product
$295 B
and delivery of lifesaving and life- drug delivery products such as: conceptualization through manufacturing and .
final packaging.
enhancing medicines for patients. • Stoppers and seals for injectable packaging systems
IN NET SALES IN 2023
• Syringe and cartridge components Headquartered in Exton, Pennsylvania, West
• Self-injection systems generated $2.95 billion in net sales in 2023. West is
• Containment and delivery systems traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE: WST)
and is included in the Standard & Poor’s 500 index.
~10 000
,
“ At West, we are guided by our core values of Passion for Customers, Leadership
TEAM MEMBERS GLOBALLY
in Quality and One West Team — these values serve as the foundation of our
ESG Strategy. Everything we do at West supports our promise to make a meaningful
difference — for our team members, our communities, our customers and ultimately
the patients who rely on our products to help them lead healthier lives. This
unwavering focus has been a defining characteristic of West for over 100 years,
and one that will continue to enable us to have a positive impact on our world
for future generations.”
Eric Green | President, CEO and Chair of the Board
2023 ESG REPORT 5
VISION FORWARD
AWARDS & ORGANIZATIONAL INVOLVEMENT
West was honored to be recognized by a number of organizations and industry associations throughout 2023.
These awards are a testament to West’s commitment to nurturing a culture of diversity and inclusion, offering innovative
products and supporting the communities in which we live and work.
SUSTAINABILITY AWARDS PHILANTHROPY AWARDS
Commitment to Sustainability Award 2023 America’s Climate Leaders 2023 Partners in Philanthropy
Invest in Ireland Awards USA Today Philadelphia Business Journal
Best Green Procurement Project of the Year America’s Most Responsible Companies Recognition for Corporate and Societal Excellence
National Procurement Awards Newsweek AmCham CARES
LEED Certification
For West’s R&D Lab in Radnor, Pennsylvania
2023 ESG REPORT 6
VISION FORWARD
OUR ESG STRATEGY
K E Y P R I ORITIE S
West’s 2030 targets are designed around three main categories —
CLIMATE
Planet, People and Process. TALENT
STRATEGY
ATTRACTION
F O C U S ARE A S
PLANET
Our climate strategy goals throughout the next six years will be key drivers for West.
R&D FOR THE
Throughout our ESG report, we will share progress and aspirations to decarbonize
DIVERSITY, EQUITY
ENVIRONMENT
operations by reducing greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) aligned with the Paris & INCLUSION
Agreement goal to curb global temperature rise to 1.5 degree Celsius. In addition,
P
E
we’ll detail goals around improving energy efficiency, renewable electricity and ENVIRONMENTAL
T O
water intensity reduction. SUSTAINABILITY E P
N
L
A E
WEST
PEOPLE L
P ESG STRATEGY
Our ESG strategy is underscored by creating a world where people are their most TALENT
2030 PHILANTHROPY RETENTION
healthy and thriving. Through 2030, two of our main six priorities will be on talent at
West; specifically, on attracting and engaging team members who are women and
under-represented minorities. In addition, we are committed to further expansion of WASTE IN
our strategic programs that position West as a global philanthropic leader. Our One OPERATIONAL
P
West Team is a unified force that continues to make a difference in local communities
PROCESSES R OCE S S
through fundraising, volunteering and community grants. With deliberate initiatives
and grants, we will deliver on our philanthropic legacy and promise of being By Your
Side for a Healthier World™.
QUALITY HEALTH
& SAFETY
PROCESS
COMPLIANCE
Our ESG strategy reflects management of compliance requirements that align with
& ETHICS
our customers’ expectations, and our unwavering commitment to a sustainable
future. Today, we are tirelessly working together as a collaborative team to review data
accuracy, completeness and auditability for each of our targets and actions. Prioritizing
RESPONSIBLE
the responsibility of our supply chain and exploring ESG opportunities with our
SUPPLY CHAIN
partners also remains a key focus.
2023 ESG REPORT 7
VISION FORWARD
CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY INITIATIVE
As a leading global provider of innovative solutions We are proud to continue our steadfast commitment to the United the SDGs is rooted in our core values and reflects our
Nations Global Compact’s (UNGC’s) 17 Sustainable Development unwavering dedication to creating a better world for current
for the health care industry, we recognize the
Goals (SDGs). and future generations.
critical role we play in promoting sustainability and
By aligning our business practices with the SDGs, we aim to Our new corporate ESG goals, that extend to 2030, align with our
advancing social progress. contribute meaningfully to the global agenda for a more sustainable company’s strategy and with the United Nations SDGs. Corporate
future. Through responsible operations, sustainable product and organizational success requires stable economies and healthy,
development and strong partnerships, West strives to make a skilled and educated workers, which in turn increases brand trust
positive impact on society, the environment and the communities and investor support.
in which we operate. Our ongoing commitment to aligning with
2023 ESG REPORT 8
PLANET
FORWARD
At West, we understand building
a better future also means being
a steward of sustainability for our
environment. We work tirelessly to
identify opportunities to help our
organization, customers, suppliers
and communities create a more
sustainable world and reach
climate targets that benefit us all.
2023 ESG REPORT 9
Environmental sustainability is inherent West continues to earn accolades and awards for Our energy intensity metric, which was tracking
our dedication to protecting our planet. We are well at 11.9% by the end of 2022, was affected by
to who we are. As a world leader in the
proud to be recognized again as one of America’s a reduced production volume in 2023. This shift
design and production of containment Climate Leaders by USA Today and on America’s has resulted in an energy intensity improvement
Most Responsible Companies list from Newsweek. of 4.2% against our 15% target set in 2018. As the
and delivery systems for injectable
In addition, West was honored regionally in Ireland facility expansion projects start to operate more
with a Commitment to Sustainability Award efficiently after ramp-up, we expect to see positive
medicines, West is proud of our legacy of
and The Best Green Procurement Project of the trends once again for our energy intensity metric.
innovation and how we have advanced
Year for our Dublin location’s project “The Path We are also in the process of reviewing multiple
to a Circular Economy.” metrics of tracking our energy intensity and
health care to build a better future.
efficiency as we move into our new 2030 targets. Absolute GHG Emissions Cumulative Reduction
2018–2023 Goals: A Recap
We understand building a better
10.0%
We continued to focus on Landfill Diversion.
Despite an unprecedented number of global capital
future also means being a steward of In 2023, 78.8% of our waste was diverted from expansion projects, we were able to reduce overall
landfill, and we will strive to be 100% landfill free
energy consumption in 2023 by 0.5%. Combined
sustainability for our environment.
by 2030. -10.0%
with this energy reduction, our continued focus
-15.0%
on carbon reduction increased levels of renewable Partners in Sustainability
-20.0%
2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
procured electricity to over 31%, accounting for
In addition, in 2023 we became an Official
19.6% of our overall energy consumption. As a
Sustainability Partner of the Philadelphia Eagles.
result, we achieved a GHG emissions reduction
This partnership represents a strategic approach
of 13.6% compared to our 5-year target of 10%.
by both organizations to promote environmental
Our drive toward renewable-sourced electricity benefits, building on our established, long-standing
allows us to move our decarbonization strategy commitment to sustainability and community
forward and enables the future electrification of development programs. The most visible and
heat to reduce emissions related to natural gas prominent aspect of the new partnership is the
consumption. Additionally, implementing energy deployment of West’s Field Goal Forest. The Eagles
audits and energy efficient design reviews across and West will plant 20 trees for each successful
our global sites has identified several opportunities field goal throughout the Eagles’ season, and will
to continue reducing energy consumption and collaborate on a tree planting event.
emissions in the future.
e-2OC
noitcudeR
%
evitalumuC
PLANET FORWARD
WEST 2030
KEY PRIORITIES & ACTIONS
CLIMATE STRATEGY
% of Waste Landfill Diverted From Landfill
100.0%
80.0%
60.0%
40.0%
20.0%
43.0% 52.0% 77.4% 84.5% 83.0% 78.8%
0.0%
2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
% Landfill Diverted
6.3%
5.0% 0.0% 1.3% 0.2% 1.9%
0.0%
-5.0%
-13.6%
% Target Reduction Absolute GHG Emissions (Metric Tons CO2-e)
% Reduction
Electricity Sources
100.0%
80.0%
60.0%
40.0% 68.9%
20.0% 83.5% 86.4% 86.6% 87.0% 86.7%
16.5% 13.6% 13.4% 13.0% 13.3% 31.1%
0.0%
2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Renewable Sourced Electricity Non-Renewable Sourced Electricity
2023 ESG REPORT 10
PLANET FORWARD
WEST 2030
KEY PRIORITIES & ACTIONS
CLIMATE STRATEGY
CONTINUED
Looking Ahead: 2030
We continue to be aligned with the 2015 Paris Chain Initiative (PSCI) and is a signatory of the PSCI Both quantitative and qualitative targets have Each of these goals was created through input from
Agreement in a commitment to do our part in Principles, aligning with their vision for excellence been set, which will enable us to achieve success internal and external stakeholders and represent
curbing global temperature rise and have set new in safety, environmental and social outcomes for in the Environment-related priorities of our ESG the minimum of what West plans to achieve. We
emissions reduction targets grounded in science the whole of the global pharmaceutical and health Strategy, including Climate Strategy, Waste in are fully prepared to raise our targets if completed
through the Science Based Targets Initiative (SBTi). care supply chain. Operational Processes, R&D for the Environment analyses indicate that is required. For example, the
In addition, we are a signatory to the Task Force on and a Responsible Supply Chain. These 2030 SBTi roadmap will provide us with a clearer target
The Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) is an
Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), which targets include: once completed no later than Q1 2026.
international non-profit organization that helps
affirms our commitment to fiscal transparency,
• Achieve 50% renewable electricity
companies disclose their environmental impact. Having a mindful focus on our planet is woven
as well as being a leader in addressing current
West’s significant progress over recent years has • Achieve 15% energy intensity improvement into everything we do at West; from our global
climate emergencies. We are also pursuing carbon
upgraded our CDP score to a “B”, putting us on • Reduce absolute emissions by 40% operations and supply chain to how we partner
offset mechanisms including Renewable Energy
the path to becoming a leader on environmental • Achieve 15% water intensity reduction with customers and philanthropic organizations.
and Guaranteed of Origin Certificates, and Virtual
transparency and action. We have continuously We are continuously holding ourselves to the
• Eliminate 100% of operational waste to landfill
Power Purchase Agreements, particularly in Europe
added greater scientific rigor and a more highest of standards when it comes to sustainability
where we’ve completed an extensive renewable
• Partner with customers to reduce, reuse and recycle
quantitative focus to our environmentally based and being a leader of climate protection. Building
secondary packaging
energy analysis. West is also a proud member and
targets. In addition, we are working collaboratively a better future for health care, humanity and the
active participant with the Pharmaceutical Supply
• Collaborate with customers to explore environmental
with our customers and suppliers to solve planet will always be critical at West.
improvements throughout the product lifecycle
ESG challenges, to better align our goals and
• Gather additional scope 3 emissions information
ensure that we are responsive to their needs.
from our supply chain, and develop a plan to reduce
those emissions
“ We are proud of what West has achieved when it
comes to safeguarding our environment, and I’m
looking forward to the future as we set focus on the
Alignment with UNGC Sustainable Development Goals
priorities and opportunities for the next six years.”
Tyler Werner | Director, ESG
2023 ESG REPORT 11
PLANET FORWARD
WEST 2030
KEY PRIORITIES & ACTIONS
WASTE IN OPERATIONAL
PROCESSES
At West, it’s not just about removing waste from Reduce material. Reuse material.
landfill, it’s about finding a beneficial repurpose
WE ARE ACTIVELY WORKING TO FIND NEW SOLUTIONS TO REDUCE, REUSE AND RECYCLE OUR NON-HAZARDOUS MANUFACTURING WASTE.
for materials.
A critical focus for us is on the reduction of scrap and other We are in the exploratory phases of identifying other opportunities
rubber waste as part of our manufacturing processes. Through for reusing our unique, clean rubber, such as donating it for turf
In 2018, we determined manufacturing waste to be material, our Operational Excellence Strategy, we strive for continuous fields or mulching for playgrounds in our communities. In addition,
and therefore set a target to be 85% landfill free by 2023. improvement. The primary element of Cost of Poor Quality (COPQ) we are assessing the use of our own grinding equipment for
We are pleased to have successfully diverted 78.8% of our waste is our targeted focus to reduce the amount of scrap from our repurposing waste. The waste in large volumes is extremely heavy,
from landfill. Our goal is to be 100% landfill free by 2030. manufacturing sites. with key manufacturing sites producing more than three million
pounds annually. Therefore, the solutions for waste management
We have three main areas of priority around waste: For the rubber waste that West does have, we are taking proactive
are geographic, and what we learn can be applicable across sites,
steps to collaborate with global partners to find useful needs.
• Landfill but the solutions will almost always be local.
For example, we are finding creative uses for our surplus rubber
• Incineration
materials, such as repurposing it into durable pavers to enhance
• Recycling
public walkways in Brazil. We have also seen success with sending
unused rubber to a partner who has been able to downcycle
and re-mold into consumer grade rubber products as clean
room anti-fatigue mats.
We continue to explore opportunities for reusing our unique, clean rubber. Alignment with UNGC Sustainable Development Goals
2023 ESG REPORT 12
PLANET FORWARD
WEST 2030
KEY PRIORITIES & ACTIONS
WASTE IN OPERATIONAL
PROCESSES
CONTINUED PERFORMANCE PLUS
SUSTAINABILITY
In 2023, West expanded its collaboration
If we can’t reduce or reuse, we’ll find a way to recycle.
with Corning® to bring sustainable
containment solutions to the market.
SECONDARY PACKAGING INTERNAL PROCESSES
Corning® Viridian™ Vials offer the following
As we look to the future, West is engaging with our customers to explore As we approach legislative deadlines for waste data, we have a strong and
benefits to manufacturers looking to bring
more environmentally friendly packaging alternatives. We have a short- to ever-evolving process in place for collecting data. While we have always had
performance and sustainability together:
mid-term goal to improve packaging and reduce single-use plastics by 2030. controls and processes for data collection, we are also aiming to gather more
• 20% less glass waste-to-landfill
granular data at the material or product level. In addition, we are investing
Simple reductions can be quick, but bigger changes are more complicated.
in software to help manage data gathering and retention. Our goal is to be a • Up to 30% less CO2-e emissions
We seek opportunities for more recyclability packaging options with our
leader in data management for our industry by being aware of our footprint • Up to 50% fill-finish efficiency improvement
customers, fostering deeper partnerships that benefit all stakeholders.
and the ongoing addition of controls we have in place. • Up to 96% reduction in glass particulate
As part of this commitment, our customers are openly invited to pilot
projects around waste management with our team. Through 2030, we are also focused on an enhanced labeling system which Viridian™ Vials are sold exclusively by
would allow us to more appropriately and efficiently label different materials West Pharmaceutical Services.
with recyclability logos for proper disposal. In addition, we have programs
in place to assess new materials that could replace carbon-intensive materials.
Waste from our own operations, waste from end-use of products and waste
from packaging are all factors in our Life Cycle Assessment Program that
improved data will support.
2023 WASTE OUR GOAL IS TO BE
78 8 28 5 M
. .
%
HIGHLIGHTS
100
%
OF OUR MANUFACTURING WASTE POUNDS OF WASTE
IS DIVERTED FROM LANDFILL RECYCLED IN 2023
LANDFILL FREE BY 2030
13
PLANET FORWARD
WEST 2030
KEY PRIORITIES & ACTIONS
R&D FOR THE ENVIRONMENT
Research & Development (R&D) When it comes to R&D for the environment, A few topics we are examining related to the Topics related to secondary packaging include:
West has two primary goals: product lifecycle include:
• Bio-derived poly bags
for the environment is one of the top
1. Collaborate with our customers to explore feasible • Low-carbon aluminum • Alternative corrugated materials
ESG priorities for our customers. and value-driven sustainability improvements
• Bio-derived plastics for flip-off buttons and poly bags • Elimination of single-use packaging
throughout the product lifecycle.
• Life Cycle Assessments (LCAs) • Establishing more robust recycling outlets
2. Partner with customers to drive innovation and
• Driving emissions down to the product level
develop new approaches for reducing, reusing We are collaborating with dozens of customers
• New product materials
and recycling secondary packaging. to categorize them into interest areas that align
• Product take-back programs
with these topics, and piloting projects that are
Currently, we are working to devise quantitative
categorized by these focus areas.
targets, in partnership with customers, to
understand what is achievable to develop a
strategy, roadmap and collaborative KPIs.
“ I’m proud to work for a company that has such a commitment
to sustainable business practices, and understands that
sustainability is our responsibility for creating a better world —
for today’s generation and the next.”
Alignment with UNGC Sustainable Development Goals
Tim Osborne | VP, Commercial Development
2023 ESG REPORT 14
PEOPLE
FORWARD
West prioritizes people; our team
members and the communities in
which we work. We’re focused on
building a diverse and inclusive
employee experience that fosters
a culture of giving back. Our One
West Team is a future-focused,
philanthropic workforce with a
unified purpose.
2023 ESG REPORT 15
PEOPLE FORWARD
WEST 2030
KEY PRIORITIES & ACTIONS
TALENT AT TRACTION
Recruiting and Retaining Top Talent
Our priority through 2030: Increase Building a diverse and inclusive workforce remains In 2023, we further solidified our Diversity Equity new collaborations that champion diversity,
a core principle of our talent acquisition strategy. & Inclusion (DE&I) strategy by expanding the veteran recruitment and hiring members of the
the representation of women globally
We utilize specific benchmarks to ensure a broad Campus & Community Ambassador program. disability community.
and representative talent pool is attracted and These team members play a critical role in
and under-represented minorities to
As a result of these ongoing efforts, 62% of new
recruited. This diversity, evident across all levels supporting our diversity recruitment goals.
U.S. hires in 2023 were U.S. People of Color and
better reflect community demographics. of the organization, fosters innovative problem- Through their efforts, 159 new partnerships
36% of our global team members are female. These
solving and well-informed decision-making, were established with key organizations within
achievements demonstrate the effectiveness of
ultimately creating a more valuable team. the U.S., including the Fresh Start Women’s
our DE&I strategy and targeted outreach efforts.
Foundation. This partnership empowers women
We are proud to report that we continue to take We are committed to sustaining this momentum,
by providing them a pathway towards financial
action and make progress to address our goals: continuously striving to improve diversity and
independence within direct labor and skilled
fostering a truly inclusive work environment.
1. Increase our ability to attract, develop and retain trades roles. Additionally, our DE&I team has
underrepresented talent at all levels of the deepened our engagement with multicultural
organization, with a particular focus on women student groups on campuses and through targeted
2. Deepen culture competence to enhance inclusivity community outreach, broadening our reach within
in the workplace underrepresented populations. Moving forward,
we are strategically expanding our talent acquisition
network through reinforced partnerships and
Alignment with UNGC Sustainable Development Goals
2023 ESG REPORT 16
PEOPLE FORWARD
WEST 2030
KEY PRIORITIES & ACTIONS
TALENT RETENTION
Our priority through 2030: Identify Talent Engagement & Retention
and address the root causes of gaps We understand that to help retain our talented This year also saw the successful launch and With the successful implementation of the Leading
team members, we must continue embedding implementation of the Leading the One West Way the One West Way program and the expansion
in attrition and promotion rates of
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DE&I) strategies program, an engaging learning experience that of our EBRGs, we are not only fostering a sense
across the entire Employee Experience journey. works to establish a consistent understanding of of belonging among our team members but also
demographic groups with significant
what it means to be a West people leader. Since equipping them with the tools and opportunities
Throughout 2023, our Employee Business
gaps, and work to reduce those gaps.
its inception in mid-2023, 1,160 (over 75%) of for professional growth and development.
Resource Groups (EBRGs) continued forming
global people leaders at West have completed
strong connections and expanding networks West’s continuous pursuit of excellence in DE&I
the program.
with team members around the globe, while also is more than a commitment — it is a journey of
providing multiple professional development As we reflect on the initiatives and achievements, transformative change that we are proud to lead.
opportunities. As of today, our EBRG structure now it’s clear that West is not only committed to but is Through innovation, collaboration and a steadfast
has four groups — Women’s Initiatives Network actively advancing our journey toward excellence in focus on our values, we are not just preparing
(WIN), Multinational Organization Supporting DE&I. The forward momentum is driven by a belief for the future; we are actively shaping a more
an Inclusive Culture (MOSAIC), Veterans & Allies in the value of every individual and the power of a inclusive, equitable and successful future for all
Leading for Organizational Results (VALOR) and diverse workforce to catalyze innovation, enhance our team members. Together, as One West Team,
the West Disability Network (WDN). decision-making and ultimately, drive our business we look forward to another century of excellence,
success. Looking ahead, we are excited to deepen underpinned by our unwavering dedication to
Throughout the year, members of the West EBRG
our engagement with a diverse supplier network, diversity, equity and inclusion.
community held various professional development
reflecting our commitment to inclusive growth
sessions, fireside chats and hosted guest speakers
and societal impact. Our ongoing efforts to recruit
whose messaging focused on growth, development
and retain top talent, including expanding our
and living our values at West. Most notably,
Campus & Community Ambassador program and
this EBRG revitalization has spurred an increase in
reinforcing partnerships for diverse recruitment,
the formation of “local” EBRG chapters at sites
underscore our dedication to building a workforce
across West.
that mirrors the diversity of the communities
we serve.
Alignment with UNGC Sustainable Development Goals
2023 ESG REPORT 17
PEOPLE FORWARD
WEST FOCUS AREA
DIVERSIT Y, EQUIT Y & INCLUSION
As West continues to move towards We know that DE&I benefits the entire workforce that our team members across the world with
and supports the overall success of our business. varying life, educational, cultural and family
another 100 years of excellence, we
West does not tolerate discrimination or experiences all have a voice. We learn and grow
reaffirm our longstanding commitment harassment of any team member, customer, through the wide diversity of thoughts and ideas.
or service provider because of age, race, color,
to employee experience, DE&I, which Building on the success of previous years,
religion, sex, ancestry, national origin, military
West’s Chief Executive Officer and Executive
service or application, marital status, citizenship
is inherent to our core value of
Leadership Team continue to maintain a steady
status, physical or mental disability, genetic
focus on DE&I objectives, including increasing
One West Team.
information, sexual orientation, gender identity
diversity throughout all team member levels.
“ West’s commitment to
or expression, or other protected characteristics
Currently, a combined 36% of West’s Board of
attracting and retaining
under applicable laws.
Directors are women or U.S. People of Color.. In
team members from diverse
We are working hard to create a safe and inclusive addition, 43% of senior leaders at West are women
backgrounds enables us
environment that allows all team members to and/or U.S. People of Color.
to have a high performing
bring their best selves to work each day, ensuring
One West Team. Investing
in diversity, equity and
inclusion is not just beneficial
for our business; it’s essential
for driving innovation,
enhancing resilience and
creating a workplace
where everyone has the
opportunity to thrive.”
Mana Fletcher
Sr. Director, Human Resources
Alignment with UNGC Sustainable Development Goals
2023 ESG REPORT 18
PEOPLE FORWARD
WEST FOCUS AREA
WEST DIVERSIT Y
BY THE NUMBERS
2023 WEST
54 20 10,000+ 34
%
DIVERSITY
DIFFERENT LANGUAGES COUNTRIES WITH A TEAM MEMBERS WORLDWIDE OF TEAM MEMBERS WITH SCIENCE,
WEST PRESENCE TECHNOLOGY, ENGINEERING AND MATH
(STEM) DEGREES ARE WOMEN (GLOBALLY)
SENIOR LEADERSHIP 43% 29%
AT WEST
OF SENIOR LEADERS AT WEST ARE WOMEN OF THOSE PROMOTED TO A LEADERSHIP POSITION
AND/OR MEMBERS OF A HMC WERE FEMALE AND/OR U.S. PEOPLE OF COLOR
Defined as Sr. Directors and Above
WOMEN 36% 36%
AT WEST
OF OUR GLOBAL TEAM MEMBERS ARE FEMALE OF ALL GLOBAL NEW HIRES WERE WOMEN
RACE & ETHNICITY 48% 62% 38%
AT WEST
OF OUR U.S. TEAM MEMBERS ARE PEOPLE OF COLOR OF U.S. HIRES IN 2023 WERE PEOPLE OF COLOR OF OUR PEOPLE MANAGERS ARE WOMEN
AND/OR U.S. PEOPLE OF COLOR
2023 ESG REPORT 19
PEOPLE FORWARD
WEST FOCUS AREA
PHIL ANTHROPY
Philanthropy continues to be one of the driving forces West’s charitable giving framework is separated into three tiers: Our Corporate Giving donations totaled $2.75 million, with
over $1 million of grants focused on cancer research and support,
of West’s culture and our One West Team. As we look 1. Corporate Giving through direct charitable gifts made by West
manufacturing readiness and STEM education, DE&I and
Pharmaceutical Services, Inc., and its subsidiaries. This giving is focused
to the future, we are committed to further expansion on STEM education (Science, Technology, Engineering and Math), ESG scholarships.
and Community Services, improving access to health care and research
of our strategic programs that will showcase West as Additionally, our team member volunteerism almost doubled
for people with disabilities.
from 2022, resulting in nearly 4,700 hours (about 6 and a half
a global philanthropic leader. In addition, we continue 2. Foundation Giving through the Herman O. West Foundation, which
months) donated by team members to charities in West communities.
is focused on West’s Scholarship Program, the Employee Emergency
In the Americas (US), our partnership with the Philadelphia Eagles
to explore opportunities to focus on ESG initiatives
Fund, Employee and Campaign Matching, and Dollars for Doers, which
focused on sustainability, which will continue throughout 2024
encourages employee volunteerism.
within our philanthropic partnerships. and beyond.
3. E mployee Giving through our West without Borders* campaigns,
which supports our annual global giving campaigns, food drives, As we begin our next century in business, philanthropy and
local campaigns and global volunteerism. community involvement will continue to be a focus, driving our
One West Team forward in making a meaningful impact in our
In 2023, larger impact strategic programs were introduced in Europe
global communities.
with major grants focused on Diabetes/Obesity research and care.
In addition, we implemented new programs in Singapore focused
on waterways waste reduction.
“ I’m grateful to work for a company that is so committed to philanthropy.
Through the giving of our time and resources, we not only have the
opportunity to enrich our communities and have a positive impact on
the world around us, but importantly also nurture a culture of
Alignment with UNGC Sustainable Development Goals
compassion, collaboration and lasting change.”
Raquel Checon | Sales Associate, Brazil
2023 ESG REPORT 20
* West without Borders is not affiliated with Doctors Without Borders®, which is a registered service mark of Bureau International de Médecins Sans Frontières.
PEOPLE FORWARD
WEST FOCUS AREA
PHIL ANTHROPY
CONTINUED
2023 CHARITABLE HIGHLIGHTS ACCESS TO HEALTH CARE
Fox Chase Cancer Center Mobile Screening Van
Began Q1 2024 across the greater Philadelphia area in underserved communities.
33 >85 19
%
Unite for Her
Funded expansion into reservation clinic near our Arizona plants — the first of its kind
CHARITIES SUPPORTED GRANTS PROVIDED THAT FOCUS INCREASE IN TEAM MEMBER cancer support service. Received Corporate Partner Award for 2023.
THAT FOCUS ON PEOPLE ON ACCESS TO HEALTH CARE GIVING OVER PRIOR YEAR
WITH DISABILITIES
ESG
Field Goal Forest Partnership With the Philadelphia Eagles
21 27 >$4.3 M
The Eagles and West will plant 20 trees for each successful field goal throughout the
Eagles’ season, resulting in 600 trees being planted in 2024.
SCHOLARSHIPS AWARDED EMERGENCY/HARDSHIP GRANTS IN CORPORATE, EMPLOYEE &
Watchways Water
THROUGH THE HERMAN O. WEST THROUGH OUR EMPLOYEE FOUNDATION CHARITABLE GIVING
Major support initiative in Asia Pacific providing ESG in-school education, plus
FOUNDATION EMERGENCY FUND
volunteer days with students and West employees to clean up community waterways.
PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES
99 ~4,700
%
Diabetes Association of Ireland
Implemented strategic funding program focused on childhood obesity, part
INCREASE IN DOLLARS DOLLARS FOR DOERS
FOR DOERS VOLUNTEER VOLUNTEER HOURS of which is bringing the popular DigiBete app into Ireland — provides education
HOURS OVER 2022 and direct connection of patients to diabetes clinics throughout the country.
COMMUNITY
American Red Cross
West became a National Home Fires Campaign partner, providing major community
support during emergency events throughout the United States.
2023 ESG REPORT 21
PROCESS
FORWARD
West is increasing responsibility
and value within our supply chain
and overall operations. Our future
will center on improved supplier
diversity, increased health and
safety for team members, a
continued prioritization of quality,
adherence to our Core Values,
and ensuring business continuity.
2023 ESG REPORT 22
PROCESS FORWARD
WEST 2030
KEY PRIORITIES & ACTIONS
RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN
When it comes to West’s supply chain The key actions for responsible supply chain Last year, we captured scope 3 emissions for the Our strategic focus on supplier diversity is more
management include: first time and reported these in detail within our than a business imperative; it’s a reflection of our
processes, we are currently working
Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) report. dedication to driving positive societal impact and
1. Work to establish ESG standards for suppliers.
promoting equality and inclusiveness across the
toward including a set of ESG-related
2. Improve how we quantify scope 3 emissions. Supplier Diversity
global communities we serve. By actively seeking
standards within a significant 3. E nsure supplier diversity (partner for good quality, In 2023, our commitment to addressing critical out and partnering with businesses from a broad
reduce risks and have backups).
ESG issues led us to recognize the need for a array of backgrounds and experiences, we hope to
portion of our current, and all future,
heightened emphasis on supplier diversity within foster and advance a broader sense of social equity.
Scope 3 emissions are an important focus of
our operations. Recognizing the vital role that a
supplier contracts. our emissions reduction strategy. While our
varied and inclusive supply chain plays in reflecting
targets can change over time, one of the biggest
the demographic diversity of our customer base,
priorities for setting supplier contract standards
we aim to increase our efforts to foster connections
is ensuring we are gathering additional scope 3
with suppliers from a broad array of backgrounds
emissions information related to transportation,
and experiences. This initiative not only enhances
carbon elements and raw materials. Then, with key
our ability to meet and surpass customer
suppliers we will develop plans to reduce these
expectations through innovative solutions and
emissions. We are also modifying supply chain
services but also strengthens our business
processes to create more diverse slates, ensure
resilience and competitive edge.
supplier diversity and reduce costs while increasing
quality of suppliers.
Alignment with UNGC Sustainable Development Goals
2023 ESG REPORT 23
PROCESS FORWARD
WEST FOCUS AREA
HEALTH & SAFET Y
Safety is an essential and fundamental At our sites, we focused on reducing the risk of The prevention of serious injuries is accomplished To help drive accountability, awareness and
incidents, injuries and exposure to health hazards through the proactive elimination of hazards, ongoing education, we continued to hold our
part of our One West Team core value,
for all team members, visitors and contractors, and finding safer alternatives, using engineering annual global Safety Week, which saw high
which means we take responsibility we designed operating protocols for our facilities controls to minimize the probability and severity engagement and participation at our sites.
to provide a safe and healthy work environment. In of incidents, improving processes and through Although safety is a focus all year long, this
for the health and safety of our team
addition to the Company’s responsibilities in safety, positive changes in behaviors/choices. This takes a dedicated week gave the opportunity to target
importantly, we also work hard to cultivate our cross-functional and coordinated group effort, from several key safety-related topics, including
members. This value and commitment to
culture of safety, where every team member has a our newest team member on the production floor, Ergonomics, Power Industrial Truck (PIT) safety and
safety is integral and complementary to
shared responsibility for and is engaged in safety. to our senior leadership team. This focus resulted in Emergency Preparedness and Safety at Home.
West achieving a 21% decrease (i.e., improvement)
our commitment to ESG and our pursuit In 2023, we remained steadfast in our relentless Safety Callouts
in our 2023 Serious Injury Rate (SIR) as compared
approach to safety, and that resulted in positive
of sustainable business practices. to our baseline year in 2022. • 21% decrease in SIR compared to 2022
success in almost every measurable aspect of
• More than 35,000 See-Do-Say Submissions entered
safety. Throughout the year, we further enhanced Our team members continued to be fully engaged
by our team members across our global sites
our focus on our proactive approach to safety, in the safety process, and in 2023, more than
• 52 Safety Impact Awards given to recognize our team
especially on the prevention of serious events and 35,000 See-Do-Say submissions were entered by
members’ outstanding commitments to safety
injuries. A serious event is one that, if conditions or our team members across our global network of
• Our focus on PIT safety resulted in the training of
outcomes had been slightly different, could have sites. This proactive hazard identification program
over 2,000 PIT operators
had a lasting impact on the team member. promotes team members’ ability to recognize
workplace hazards and provides an outlet for them • With a continued focus on leading indicators,
96% of investigations for serious incidents were
to take ownership in taking immediate action to
closed within the goal of 7 shift days
mitigate that risk and/or report it to their supervisor.
“ As a production operator, I see firsthand the potential safety hazards
we face every day in operations. I have loved ones counting on me
to get home safely each day, so I am committed to holding myself and
Alignment with UNGC Sustainable Development Goals
those around me accountable to think and act safely in all we do.”
Devin Campbell | Westar Operator, Jersey Shore, PA
2023 ESG REPORT 24
PROCESS FORWARD
WEST FOCUS AREA
QUALIT Y
Leadership in Quality is one of West’s During our Annual Global Quality Week, our team • Out of Specification customer complaints were is best positioned to be a partner to help our
members were educated on the importance of reduced by 28% in 2023, compared to 2022. customers deal with these new requirements.
Core Values, serving as a cultural north
being proactive versus reactive when it comes to
SUPPLIER QUALITY European Union’s (EU) GMP Annex 1 provides
star across all areas of our business. quality; working to control situations and identify
• We established new Supplier Quality processes technical guidance on the principles and
future problems as opposed to acting in response.
Our team members are trained to to proactively drive quality at the supplier level guidelines for sterile injectable drug products
Team members across all areas of the business
by defining clearer raw material and component
for human use and veterinary use. The revision
participated in the interactive, educational Quality
consider quality each day, in every step requirements and more thorough process
mandates a holistic Contamination Control
Week, with sessions held at West’s Corporate validations at suppliers.
Strategy in which companies will need to establish
of every process. As millions of people
Headquarters, virtually and at manufacturing sites
• We realized a 19% reduction in Supplier Corrective
and document a process to identify and assess
across the globe.
Action Requests (SCARs) in the period of May through
globally rely on West’s products, never risks and define actions to prevent contamination
December of 2023 (since we began measuring).
Quality Highlights From Across of sterile products.
compromising on quality is a constant
the Business Annex 1
Producing high-quality, ready-to-use packaging
focus of ongoing training, auditing and
CONTRACT MANUFACTURING & DEVICE The 2023 European Good Manufacturing Practice components has always been a strength of West,
process development. • We saw a 5% decrease in Out of Specification (GMP) Annex 1 revision is causing a major shift in and our customers are leveraging our capabilities
complaints from 2022 to 2023. drug manufacturing. The regulations have more to support their Contamination Control Strategy,
• Root Cause Training was rolled out globally to support than tripled in length with this revision, and they especially as it pertains to this new legislation.
our proactive approach to quality. contain over 30 references to primary packaging Our Quality teams are working directly with
materials alone. This evolving regulatory landscape other parts of the business to ensure that West’s
CONTAINMENT
requires West’s customers to ensure they are global Contamination Control Strategies support
• We saw a 6% improvement in final reject rates for
working with a true expert who can help them our customers’ ability to comply with the new
elastomer manufacturing in 2023 compared to 2022.
navigate the new legislation. We believe West Annex 1 guidelines.
“ All employees are expected to speak up if they have
quality concerns and are empowered to stop the production
Alignment with UNGC Sustainable Development Goals
line if something doesn’t look right.”
Brian Motter | VP, Quality Operations, Drug Delivery Devices
2023 ESG REPORT 25
PROCESS FORWARD
WEST FOCUS AREA
COMPLIANCE & ETHICS
At West, we hold ourselves accountable Each West team member is responsible for This has resulted in an actionable data driven plan In November 2023, West held its annual
ensuring we are fully compliant with the West for communication, education and monitoring for Compliance and Cybersecurity Awareness Week,
to the highest standards of integrity
Code of Conduct (“Code”) and adhering to our 2024 and beyond. with the theme of Awareness, Recognition
and respect — for our team members,
Core Values. The Code, which is available in and Reinforcement, which highlighted these
In addition, West actively promotes open
customers and the patients whom we multiple languages on Westpharma.com and important topics:
communication at all levels of the organization
West’s company intranet, underpins our approach
ultimately serve. by providing the following avenues for team • Awareness about the updated Business Partner Code,
to always operating with the highest integrity.
West’s Business Compliance & Integrity program,
members to raise questions or report their
and Speak-Up at West — a program that reinforces
In 2023, we were pleased to release an updated concerns without fear of retaliation:
the importance of speaking up when something
and refreshed Business Partner Code of Conduct
• A manager or shift supervisor does not look right.
for our customers, suppliers and partners. The
• Any company manager • Recognition of Data Privacy and Cybersecurity —
updated Business Partner Code of Conduct
• Any member of Human Resources or Quality featuring a dedicated session on Phishing and
emphasizes our key principles and expectations of
online safety.
• Any member of the Business Compliance &
ethical business conduct, including environmental
Integrity Team • Reinforcement of West’s annual Code of Conduct
responsibility, fair trade, human rights, quality
• Any member of the Law Department and Mutual Respect training requirements.
and transparency of supply chain, and other key
• Integrity Helpline (www.west-helpline.com or
business practices. While we reinforce Compliance throughout the
1-800-461-9330)
year, Compliance and Cybersecurity Awareness
We also overhauled the Global Compliance Risk
Week gives us the opportunity to drive awareness
Assessment & Mitigation Planning (RAMP)
on ways to protect West, ensure each team member
in 2023 by leveraging advanced information
understands the importance of protecting West
technology systems and prior regional assessments.
and reinforces organizational commitment to
operating with integrity.
“ Empowering everyone at West with compliance and data integrity knowledge
is integral to our success as an organization. I’m proud of what we’ve achieved
by putting strong effort into global training and awareness programs, and
Alignment with UNGC Sustainable Development Goals
what more is to come. West truly believes in how this will propel us forward.”
Jen Leck | Senior Manager, Business Compliance & Integrity
2023 ESG REPORT 26
PROCESS FORWARD
WEST FOCUS AREA
COMPLIANCE & ETHICS
CONTINUED
Data Privacy Compliance Oversight
West takes its critical responsibility to secure the Protection Law and many others throughout the The West Business Compliance Committee our business teams support our global Compliance
personal data of its customers, team members world. The number of jurisdictions where data (WBCC), chaired by West’s Chief Compliance and structure and its corresponding policies and
and other stakeholders very seriously. We have privacy laws have been or will be implemented Privacy Officer and comprised of West’s Executive procedures to support our team members in acting
programs and processes in place to maintain is constantly increasing. West is committed to Leadership Team and the Head of Internal Audit, ethically in accordance with West’s high standards.
adherence to all applicable data privacy protecting personal data and is dedicated to continue to provide strategic direction for our
Additional information about the Business
regulations, including the European Union’s its data privacy program and educating team Compliance and Data Privacy programs and ensure
Compliance and Integrity program is available on
General Data Protection Regulation, the California members on protecting against cyber threats. regular reporting to the Audit Committee of our
our website.
Consumer Privacy Act, the Personal Information Board of Directors. With guidance from the WBCC,
27
PROCESS FORWARD
WEST FOCUS AREA
BUSINESS CONTINUIT Y
West’s Business Continuity and Building on this foundation, our Business Furthermore, our program aligns with ISO 22301
Continuity Management Program protects our standards, among other regulatory requirements,
Resilience Team is integral to our
team members, customers and corporate assets with executive leadership providing global, regional
operations, proactively collaborating while minimizing financial, legal, reputational and local sponsorship and governance.
and strategic risks. Our comprehensive
with manufacturing sites to significantly Through meticulous planning, targeted training,
strategy includes:
and the precise execution of our continuity
enhance our operational health and • Detailed risk assessments
strategies, we have effectively mitigated potential
• Continuous monitoring impacts to our global manufacturing and supply
resilience. These strategic engagements
• Business impact analyses chain operations. For instance, natural disasters,
“ Business Continuity
are designed to fortify our ability to • Response and recovery strategies geopolitical tensions, physical and technological
is not just a plan,
disruptions have had no material impact on our
• Specialized training programs
deliver high-quality products reliably
operations. A proactive and adaptive approach but a promise to
• Designated incident response and crisis
during disruptions or crises, underscoring ensures uninterrupted operations and underscores
management teams to ensure our readiness
persevere, adapt, and
and agile response capabilities our dedication to mitigating business risks and
our commitment to maintaining
impacts across all facets of the organization. thrive no matter
We engage with a broad spectrum of stakeholders,
our global health care supply chain the challenge ahead.”
including customers, suppliers and recognized
business continuity and disaster recovery
responsibilities.
Keith Frederick
organizations to ensure our resilience efforts align
Director, Global Business Continuity
with the latest industry standards and best practices.
Alignment with UNGC Sustainable Development Goals
2023 ESG REPORT 28
PROCESS FORWARD
WEST FOCUS AREA
CYBERSECURIT Y
At West, safeguarding our critical We enforce rigorous security measures to prevent • Global Cybersecurity Awareness Program transferred, or leaked. Additionally, servers and
unauthorized access and transfer of sensitive (Phishing) — establish a robust Cybersecurity workstations were fortified to minimize exposure
infrastructure and the data of our
Awareness Program to improve user awareness
information, ensuring the confidentiality of West’s and vulnerabilities.
and behavior, evaluate progress and areas
customers and stakeholders is data. In addition, we continuously focus on internal
for improvement. Content enhancements were made to our security
training and education to ensure the preparedness
paramount. Our ongoing cybersecurity awareness training, emphasizing the importance
By leveraging automated tools, we manage IT
of our team members.
of regular training sessions to ensure maximum
initiatives are designed to fortify assets efficiently, enhancing traceability and
Our key infrastructure and cybersecurity initiatives global awareness. Each year, we launch an internal
accelerating incident response. Additionally, we’ve
our defenses, educate internally and have focuses on: Cybersecurity Awareness Campaign globally
implemented a robust program to enhance user
to reinforce key messages around cybersecurity.
mitigate risks effectively. • Data Loss Prevention (DLP) — enforce security awareness and behavior, continuously evaluating
and compliance on all managed devices, prevent West team members are required to complete
progress for further improvement.
exfiltration of sensitive data and block unauthorized various trainings on cybersecurity upon hire and
transfer of West confidential and proprietary data. We have upgraded our network security
on an annual basis, including internally developed
• Automated Asset Detection and Management — capabilities, enhanced network segmentation, cybersecurity training, anti-phishing training and
deploy automated tool to manage IT assets with and strengthened our defenses. Specifically,
general information security trainings, all of which
traceability, improve lifecycle management and
we ensured endpoint security coverage with
are provided in multiple languages.
accelerate incident response.
endpoint malware and virus protection software.
As we continue our commitment to cybersecurity,
We utilize DLP to monitor and enforce policies
we ensure the safety and integrity of West’s
to prevent sensitive data from being accessed,
operations and data.
“ In today’s digital age, safeguarding data isn’t only about
protecting our information; it’s about safeguarding the
trust of our customers, the reputation of our brand and
Alignment with UNGC Sustainable Development Goals
the future of our business.”
Brad Gasser | Sr. Solutions Architect, Cybersecurity
2023 ESG REPORT 29
PROCESS FORWARD
GRI INDEX
Year 2022 2023 Year 2022 2023
GRI 302-1 ENERGY WITHIN THE ORGANIZATION2,3 GRI 305-4 GHG EMISSIONS INTENSITY2,3
Thermal Fuel consumption by type (non-renewable) Emissions Intensity 2.62 2.43
Scope 1 (Thermal) (kWh) 173,094,967 170,102,705 GRI 305-5 REDUCTION OF GHG EMISSIONS2,3
Electrical Energy Consumed (non-renewable) Procurement of Green Energy (Metric Tons CO2-e) 10,377 29,678
Scope 2 (Generator Distillate Fuel Oil 4) (kWh) 830,789 702,854 (Scope 1) Energy Management / Facilities Projects 167 397
Scope 2 (Electrical) (kWh) 252,989,034 201,570,312 (Scope 2) Energy Management / Facilities Projects 416 140
Energy Consumed (renewable) Total 10,960 30,125
Solar Energy Scope 1 Consumed (kWh) 14,775 11,532 GRI 306-3 WASTE GENERATED3
Scope 2 (Electrical) Purchased Renewable (kWh) 38,739,656 90,984,029 Total Weight of Waste Generated (lbs.) 45,351,991 45,667,996
Total Energy Consumption (kWh) 465,669,221 463,371,432 GRI 306-4 WASTE DIVERTED FROM DISPOSAL2
GRI 302-3 ENERGY INTENSITY2,3 Total Weight of Waste Diverted From Disposal (lbs.) 37,620,176 36,004,067
Energy Intensity Factor 9.94 10.81 GRI 303-3 WATER WITHDRAWAL2
GRI 302-4 REDUCTIONS ACHIEVED AS A DIRECT RESULT OF CONSERVATION AND EFFICIENCY INITIATIVES2,3 Total Water Withdrawal (Gal.) 314,676,7445 360,355,858
Scope 1 (Gas/Oil) (kWh) 950,209 2,194,350 GRI 403-9 WORK RELATED INJURIES2
Scope 2 (Electrical) (kWh) 1,666,606 301,331 The number of fatalities as a result of work-related injury 0 0
Total Reductions in Consumption (kWh) 2,616,815 2,495,681 The rate of recordable work-related injuries 0.67 0.74
GRI 305-1 DIRECT (SCOPE 1) GHG EMISSIONS2,3
Scope 1 (Gas) (Metric Tons CO2-e) 31,371 30,828
1 All information reported is believed accurate at the time of inclusion and based upon assumptions, most of which are described in this report.
GRI 305-2 INDIRECT (SCOPE 2) GHG EMISSIONS2,3 Prior year data may be updated with new information but the impacts are immaterial unless specifically noted in the report.
2 West’s baselines are based on 2018 Scope 1&2 Energy consumption data and 2018 absolute CO2 emissions. This baseline was chosen as 2018
Scope 2 (Generator Distillate Fuel Oil 4) (Metric Tons CO2-e) 224 189 is the starting year of the 5-year goals with the most up-to-date and accurate information to help establish a firm baseline.
3 Based on availability of data and the way West manages its business, some West locations may be excluded. Any exclusions contained within
Scope 2 (Electrical) (Metric Tons CO2-e) 91,339 73,173 this report are not believed to have a material impact.
4 Emission factors conversion source: The Climate Registry, U.S. EPA, USA EPA egrid, International Energy Agency (IEA).
Total CO2 Emissions (Metric Tons CO2-e) 122,934 104,190
5 In 2023, we reviewed data controls and processes. After careful review, we are now updating reported 2022 water withdrawal figures to reflect
any necessary changes.
2023 ESG REPORT 30
West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc.
530 Herman O. West Drive
Exton, PA 19341 USA
610.594.2900
www.westpharma.com
Copyright © 2024 West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc.
All trademarks and registered trademarks used in this report are the property of West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc
or its subsidiaries, in the United States and other jurisdictions, unless noted otherwise.
11769 • 0624
