2022
Sustainability
Report
1 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
03 38
A Message from Our CEO Bettering the Planet
04 51
About WestRock Corporate Governance
Table of
08 Sustainability 63 ESG Performance
Contents at WestRock Data Table
16 Supporting People 70 Appendix
and Communities
֡ External Initiatives
֡ Membership of Associations
֡ GRI Index
Innovating for Our
32 ֡ SASB Index
Customers and
֡ TCFD Index
Their Customers
֡ UN Sustainable
Development Goals
֡ Third-Party Assurance
Updated as of July 14, 2023
2 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from A Message from Our President and Chief Executive Officer
Our CEO
WestRock is proud of its long heritage of sustainability, which We are part of a vast network of customers, suppliers,
About WestRock is only growing in significance. We create fiber-based paper consumers, investors, policymakers and communities.
and packaging from a renewable resource, putting circularity Working together, we can learn from each other, amplify
Sustainability at the core of our business. In fiscal year 2022, we worked one another’s progress and accelerate our successes.
at WestRock diligently to continue progressing on our sustainability WestRock brings a unique offering to the table because
journey and toward our targets. Like the customers with of our expertise in manufacturing fiber-based packaging
Supporting People whom we work, we’ve encountered our share of successes solutions supported by robust capabilities in automation,
and Communities and obstacles. We remain committed and are pleased to design, materials science and beyond.
share details of our achievements in this report.
As we advance our sustainability strategy and make
Innovating for
Our purpose is to Innovate Boldly and Package Sustainably. progress on our targets, we’ll continue to demonstrate that
Our Customers and
We have been honing how we embody that purpose, our corporate and sustainability strategies are aligned. For
Their Customers
because we believe our greatest business opportunity lies example, just after fiscal year 2022 ended, we finalized
at the intersection of innovation and sustainability. Our the acquisition of Grupo Gondi, one of Mexico’s top paper
Bettering the Planet
customers are working hard to make their businesses more and packaging companies. This acquisition affords us the
sustainable; we encourage them to bring us their greatest opportunity to expand our presence in the desirable Latin
Corporate Governance
challenges. We aim to meet them with bold, innovative American market while also bringing one of our longtime
solutions that help them win in the marketplace and partners in sustainable packaging solutions under the
ESG Performance
progress toward their ambitious goals. WestRock banner.
Data Table
In fiscal year 2021, we aligned around a range of sustainability Close collaboration with our customers, team members and
Appendix commitments and targets. Throughout fiscal year 2022 — the communities to innovate and make lasting impact puts us
year captured in this report — we’ve been doing the work. on the path to a better world. Together, we are imagining
and delivering on the promise of a sustainable future.
Highlights include:
Thank you for sharing our journey and celebrating our
progress along the way.
֡ Supporting people and communities by spending more
than $1 billion with small and diverse-owned suppliers.
֡ Innovating for our customers by finding new ways to Hear more from David Sewell:
replace plastic with fiber-based materials, enhancing
circularity and helping customers reduce packaging-
related greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions.
David B. Sewell, Chief Executive Officer
֡ Bettering the planet by making progress toward our
Scope 1 and Scope 2 science-based targets (SBTs) with
a 5.6% total reduction from a 2019 baseline.
֡ Enhancing our corporate governance by establishing
the WestRock Sustainability Council of functional
leaders from across the enterprise.
3 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from
About WestRock
Our CEO
About WestRock
Our Purpose, Vision
and Values
WestRock provides innovative, sustainable, fiber-based Fiscal Year 2022 Company Snapshot1
Circularity at
packaging solutions for consumer and corrugated
WestRock
packaging markets. We support customers by leading
About This Report
in sustainability, accelerating innovation, delivering
reliable operational excellence and partnering with them 230+
31 Paperboard and
Sustainability
to help them win in the marketplace and deliver on their
Containerboard Mills2
at WestRock
sustainability goals. WestRock’s approximately 50,000
Converting
team members support customers around the world from
Facilities
Supporting People locations in North America, South America, Europe, Asia
and Communities
and Australia.
Innovating for Our extensive network of mills, converting and recycling 63
Our Customers and facilities, our capabilities in automation technology and
Their Customers materials science, and our legacy in sustainable forestry Packaging Sales by Segment
position us to imagine and deliver on the promise of a Sales by Segment
Distribution Sites
Bettering the Planet sustainable future. We believe fiber-based packaging, the
core of our business and sustainability platform, plays 28%
Corporate Governance a central role in replacing plastic and advancing a more
circular economy. More information on the markets we
42%
serve can be found in our 2022 Annual Report on Form 18 Recycling
ESG Performance
10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2022. Facilities
Data Table
Appendix 23%
7%
Corrugated Packaging Consumer Packaging
Distribution Global Paper
~50,000
Teammates
1 Does not include Grupo Gondi. We will include Grupo Gondi data in next year’s sustainability report.
2 Includes the mill in Panama City, Florida, which closed in 2022 but operated for most of the year and is included in all metrics in this report.
4 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from Our Purpose, Vision and Values
Our CEO
About WestRock
֡ Our Purpose, Vision Innovate Boldly. Together as One WestRock, we have the power to innovate boldly and package sustainably — creating a better future for
and Values each other, our customers, our communities and the world. Our Purpose directly serves our Vision to be the world’s best
Package Sustainably.™
Circularity at paper and packaging company. We can achieve both by upholding our Values of Integrity, Respect, Accountability and
WestRock Excellence in all that we do.
About This Report
Sustainability Our Vision Our Values
at WestRock
Our Vision is to be the world’s best paper and packaging We take our Values seriously. They guide how we
Supporting People
company. Sustainability is central to that vision. conduct ourselves.
and Communities
Partnership and collaboration are at the heart of our ֡ Integrity: We are honest, ethical and do the right thing.
Innovating for
efforts. We operate at the center of a global network
֡ Respect: We treat one another with respect and earn
Our Customers and
of customers, suppliers, landholders, nonprofits and
Their Customers the respect of others through our actions.
communities. Working together with all members of that
ecosystem establishes our leadership on sustainability and ֡ Accountability: We are responsible for our work, to our
Bettering the Planet amplifies our efforts. WestRock partners with: team and for contributing to the success of our company.
֡ Excellence: We strive to perform at the highest level
Corporate Governance ֡ Customers, delivering real value, providing competitive
— for ourselves and for our customers, investors
advantages, helping them make progress toward
and communities.
ESG Performance their sustainability goals, delivering consistent
Data Table quality and superior service, and innovating to foster
sustainable growth.
Appendix ֡ Suppliers, helping them understand and advance
sustainability and business goals.
֡ Landowners, supporting sustainable forestry.
֡ Nonprofits and our communities, investing to develop
a skilled workforce for manufacturing, education and
resources for family forest landowners, and equitable
access to the benefits of thriving urban tree canopies.
Our team members also collaborate internally across all
WestRock divisions — including innovation, mills, product
design, automation, marketing, digital and more — to
improve sustainability both at WestRock and in the
global economy.
5 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from Circularity at WestRock
Our CEO
About WestRock Fiber-based packaging is made from renewable materials The circular economy at WestRock revolves around
Our Purpose, Vision and can be recycled. These qualities make WestRock’s our core input which comes from forests, fiber.
business inherently circular in nature. We strive continuously
and Values
for greater circularity in our business, and we aim to
Virgin fiber from responsibly
֡ Circularity at contribute to a more circular global economy. managed forests
WestRock
We source from responsibly managed forests Manufacturing facilities
The Ellen MacArthur Foundation3 identifies three principles
About This Report and have created one of the industry's We recirculate water, reuse
that guide progress toward a more circular economy: largest independently audited certification chemicals, and recycle or reuse
systems for tracking harvest compliance. many byproducts.
Sustainability ֡ Eliminate waste and pollution
at WestRock
֡ Circulate products and materials at their highest value
Supporting People ֡ Regenerate nature
and Communities
We strive to apply those principles every day at WestRock.
We support sustainable forestry practices to regenerate the
Innovating for forestlands that produce our virgin fiber. We work to reduce
Our Customers and our resource use and to recycle and reuse materials and Converting facilities
Their Customers products. We also rethink processes and designs to minimize + We convert responsibly
Recycling The Journey of sourced/produced paper into
waste and pollution and facilitate recycling and the beneficial
+ We recover and recycle fiber innovative packaging solutions
Bettering the Planet use of byproducts of our production process. to supply WestRock mills and for our customers. Scraps from
Fiber at WestRock
other producers. the converting process are
Corporate Governance + We invest in single-stream recycled back into the paper
recycling to enable processing Advancing Circularity through innovative cycle.
of mixed-use paper. + We reimagine and innovate
ESG Performance + We coordinate fiber take-back the Packaging Life Cycle packaging solutions to:
Hear more from Alpa Sutaria, senior vice president
Data Table with customers. ↳ Advance circularity
of Strategy and Sustainability, about WestRock’s ↳ Drive plastic reduction
circularity initiatives and cross-sector collaboration. ↳ Support sustainability goals
Appendix
Some fiber leaves Customers
the cycle due to
+ We produce machinery that facilitates packaging optimization,
fiber degradation.
increased run speeds and waste reduction.
+ We work with customers to increase efficiency in transportation
and distribution.
+ We partner with customers to educate consumers about recycling.
3 The Ellen MacArthur Foundation develops and promotes the idea of a circular
economy. For more information, visit: ellenmacarthurfoundation.org.
6 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from About This Report
Our CEO
About WestRock
Our 2022 Sustainability Report outlines environmental, This year, we have included an index informed by the
Our Purpose, Vision social and governance (ESG) strategies, activities, recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related
and Values metrics, performance and progress for fiscal year 2022 Financial Disclosures (TCFD). We have also provided
(October 1, 2021–September 30, 2022, unless otherwise a table demonstrating the potential contribution of our
Circularity at
noted) in addition to key discussions surrounding sustainability strategy and targets to the relevant United
WestRock
ongoing, forward-looking sustainability strategies. Except Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
֡ About This Report
where noted, this report covers 100% of WestRock’s
We welcome feedback on our approach to sustainability.
consolidated global operations.
Sustainability Questions regarding our sustainability strategy, program
at WestRock We report on our sustainability progress and performance and performance can be submitted to sustainability@
annually. Prior to this publication, in May 2022 we issued westrock.com. For information about our process for
Supporting People a report covering fiscal year 2021. Please note that when collecting, assessing and verifying the environmental and
and Communities we complete an acquisition or divestiture, we update data social data included in this report, see page 63.
for all material topics and disclosures for each reporting
Innovating for period presented in the report.
Our Customers and WestRock Reporting and Our
This sustainability report was prepared in accordance
Their Customers
with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 2021 Universal Acquisition of Grupo Gondi
Standards and relevant Topic Standards Option. WestRock
Bettering the Planet
has reported in accordance with GRI since 2016, and
Our acquisition of Grupo Gondi was finalized soon
our previous GRI reports can be found on our website.
Corporate Governance after the end of fiscal year 2022. We have not
This report also includes a crosswalk to the relevant
included its data in this report but have taken its
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB)
ESG Performance GHG emissions into account as we continue to
disclosure topics.
Data Table chart progress toward our 2030 science-based
target (SBT). See page 40-41 of this report for more
Appendix information about our SBT.
7 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from
Sustainability at WestRock RECOGNITION
Our CEO
About WestRock
Sustainability
at WestRock Our Commitment 2022: Bringing Our Sustainability Awards and Recognition
֡ Our Commitment
to Sustainability Strategy to Life
to Sustainability
֡ 2022 AF&PA Sustainability Award for Safety
2022 Sustainability
Highlights At WestRock, we are committed to doing our part to fulfill We made a deliberate decision to pair strategy with ֡ 2022 AF&PA Sustainability Award for Circular
sustainability. In fiscal year 2022, we updated our Value Chain
Sustainability Targets the promise of a sustainable future. We are innovating to
build on our 100-year legacy and to make the most of the sustainability targets, and most notably validated ֡ Council of Singapore: EverGrow™
Sustainability circular nature of fiber-based paper and packaging. We our science-based target to reduce Scope 1, 2 and 3 Fiber-based Produce Packaging
Management greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 27.5% by 2030. We
and Oversight organize our efforts around our three sustainability pillars: focused our efforts on developing, enhancing and ֡ Dow Jones Sustainability Index
Supporting People and Communities, Innovating for Our
Priority Assessment Customers and Their Customers and Bettering the Planet. implementing strategies that put us on the path to reach ֡ Human Rights Campaign Foundation
those targets. Corporate Equality Index 2022
Stakeholder
We set sustainability targets for our operations, and we
Engagement As an expert on packaging sustainability, we partner ֡ North American Paperboard Packaging
work with customers as a trusted, expert partner to develop
Competition: Excellence Award in
with people and organizations throughout our ecosystem
innovative packaging, automation and design solutions to
Supporting People of customers, suppliers and communities to help them Sustainability - Recipe Unlimited Swiss
help them meet their goals. We work and innovate constantly
and Communities understand and make progress on sustainability. Chalet Takeout Cartons and Trays +
to become an ever-more valuable sustainability partner.
WestRock EverGrow™ Grape Tomato Punnet
Innovating for ֡ Singapore Packaging Star Awards 2022
Our Customers and from Manufacturing Federation & Packaging
Their Customers Council of Singapore: EverGrow™ Fiber-
Based Produced Packaging
Bettering the Planet
֡ S&P Global Sustainability Yearbook 2022
Corporate Governance
Our Sustainability Pillars
ESG Performance Three pillars underpin our work to innovate boldly
Data Table and package sustainably.
Appendix
8 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from 2022 Sustainability Highlights
Our CEO
About WestRock
Sustainability
at WestRock
Our Commitment Supporting People Innovating for Our Customers Bettering the Planet
to Sustainability
and Communities and Their Customers
֡ 2022 Sustainability
Highlights
Sustainability Targets
Spent more than Developed new technologies and For the first time, Made progress toward
Provided STEM, manufacturing
Sustainability $1 billion partnerships to replace plastic provided an index our science-based
and technical training to
Management with fiber-based materials. informed by the Task targets (SBTs) with a
and Oversight with small and diverse- 330K+ Force on Climate-
5.6%
owned suppliers, related Financial
Priority Assessment
individuals since 2019.
exceeding our goal. Disclosures (TCFD)
Stakeholder
Helped customers recommendations.
total reduction
Engagement
understand in our Scope 1 and
Aligned on a strategic, global corporate and reduce Scope 2 GHG emissions
Supporting People
giving approach. Enhanced circularity packaging-related from 2019 baseline.
and Communities
by partnering with greenhouse gas
customers on (GHG) emissions.
Innovating for
Reduced life-changing events at our recycling initiatives.
Our Customers and Ensured that nearly
facilities from four to two, bringing us
Their Customers
100%
closer to our goal of zero.
Bettering the Planet
of wholly owned fiber-based
manufacturing facilities were
Corporate Governance
Strengthened governance of our sustainability chain-of-custody certified
program at the board of directors level. to internationally recognized
ESG Performance
standards.
Data Table
Established the
Corporate
Appendix WestRock Sustainability Council
Governance of functional leaders from across the enterprise.
9 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from Sustainability Targets: 2022 Progress
Our CEO
About WestRock
We believe that our timebound sustainability targets could contribute to eight of the 17 United
Sustainability
Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). For a description of the goals and SDG goals
at WestRock
listed here, reference Appendix II: UN Sustainable Development Goals.
Our Commitment
to Sustainability
2022 Sustainability
Highlights
֡ Sustainability Targets
Sustainability
Management
and Oversight
Setback could impact target
Target reached
Priority Assessment achievement date
Stakeholder On track to meet target Minor delay; expecting recovery
Engagement
Target
Supporting People Topic Target SDG Goals Key Performance Indicators FY22 Progress Update Status
Fiscal Year
and Communities
100% of WestRock’s products will be
recyclable, compostable or reusable,
Innovating for 8 97.8% of products recyclable,
Sustainable Packaging driving the transition to a more n/a 2025
Our Customers and circular economy through cutting- 12 compostable or reusable
Their Customers edge innovation.
Reduce absolute Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions by 5.6% total reduction from
2030
Bettering the Planet 27.5% from a FY19 base year. 2019 baseline
A validated science-based target to
Carbon (GHG Emissions) reduce our greenhouse gas (GHG) 7 Reduce absolute Scope 3 GHG emissions from purchased
Corporate Governance emissions by 27.5%. 13 goods and services, fuel and energy activities, upstream and Partnering with CDP to
2030 collect data for Scope 3
downstream transportation and distribution, and end-of-life
emissions inventory
treatment of sold products by 27.5% from a FY19 base year.
ESG Performance
Data Table 100% of virgin fiber
Source 100% of virgin fiber from responsibly managed forests. Annual sourced from responsibly
Promote sustainable forestry and
managed forests
Appendix seek to ensure that the forests where
we operate remain forest positive. 8 Invest in the future of sustainable forestry by supporting
Supported certification of
Sustainable Forestry We will achieve these goals through 12 certification of 1.5 million acres of forestland to recognized 2030
457,114 acres since FY19
conservation initiatives that promote 15 forest management standards.
sound forest management by private
Engage with 10,000 private landowners and their stakeholders
landowners. 5,550 landowners engaged
to provide education, guidance and support for sustainable 2030
since FY19
management of their forestlands.
10 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from Sustainability Targets: 2022 Progress
Our CEO
About WestRock Setback could impact target
Target reached
achievement date
Sustainability On track to meet target Minor delay; expecting recovery
at WestRock
Our Commitment Target
Topic Target SDG Goals Key Performance Indicators FY22 Progress Update Status
to Sustainability Fiscal Year
2022 Sustainability In the process of vetting
Commit $15 million to community projects that protect and
Highlights 2030 partners for proposed
benefit freshwater resources, working forests and biodiversity.
community projects
֡ Sustainability Targets
6
Enhance the water management systems at all mills as part
Sustainability Water Stewardship Lead in water stewardship. 12 1.1% reduction of water intake
of a commitment to reduce our water intake by 15% from a 2030
Management 15 FY19 baseline. from FY19 baseline
and Oversight
Launch a global employee education campaign Project plan in place for
2023
Priority Assessment emphasizing the importance of responsible water use. FY23 launch
Stakeholder
Strive for a 100% safe culture by driving Track life-changing events (LCEs) with a goal of zero. Annual Reduced LCEs to 2 in FY22
Engagement continuous improvement to reduce risk
Safety 8
in the workplace and by supporting our Focus on continual year-over-year reduction in severe injuries
Supporting People teammates’ well-being. by tracking lost work-day rate (LWDR). Annual 0.8% increase in LWDR in FY22
and Communities
֡ Expose 500,000 learners to STEM (science, technology,
engineering & math) curriculum to build interest in
Innovating for modern manufacturing.
Our Customers and Invest to reduce barriers to ֡ Expose 250,000 economically disadvantaged individuals
Their Customers technical education and skills, to technical education and skills required for advanced
Training and Education inspiring careers in modern 8 manufacturing careers. 2030 330,352 learners
10 supported since FY19
Bettering the Planet manufacturing by providing access ֡ Provide access to technical and soft skills training to
to training for one million individuals. 250,000 veterans to enable successful transitions from
military to advanced manufacturing careers.
Corporate Governance
֡ Launch outreach/workforce development initiative in
priority areas.
ESG Performance
Data Table
Appendix
11 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from Sustainability Targets: 2022 Progress
Our CEO
About WestRock Setback could impact target
Target reached
achievement date
Sustainability On track to meet target Minor delay; expecting recovery
at WestRock
Our Commitment Target
Topic Target SDG Goals Key Performance Indicators FY22 Progress Update Status
to Sustainability Fiscal Year
2022 Sustainability Diversity, Inclusion, Invest in programs and systems to ֡ Partnerships with HBCUs
Highlights Equity and Belonging advance our leadership in diversity, and external professional
inclusion and belonging for our programs for women and
֡ Sustainability Targets
teammates, customers, industry people of color
Sustainability and communities.
֡ Partnership with the
Management Manufacturing Institute’s
Focus on critical recruitment and retention programs to
and Oversight Heroes MAKE America
target year-over-year improvement at all levels for women, 2030
program; increased
Priority Assessment people of color and military veterans working at WestRock.
veteran new hires by 0.7%
Stakeholder ֡ Support for Women MAKE
Engagement America, a program aimed
at closing the gender gap
in manufacturing through
Supporting People
research and mentorship
and Communities
5
Improved year-over-year
10
Track diversity in succession planning, with the goal of women and ethnic diversity
Innovating for 2030
making succession representative of company demographics. representation in Executive
Our Customers and
and Management
Their Customers
Target high levels of employee engagement (85% or better)
77% employee engagement
and/or year-over-year improvement across WestRock Annual
in FY22
Bettering the Planet operations, sites and functions.
The short-term incentive plan
Corporate Governance Establish an annual incentive plan modifier to reinforce senior (STIP) for FY22 assigned to
leaders’ role in driving diversity and inclusion across the Annual approximately 100 leaders
organization and to measure progress. contained a diversity modifier
ESG Performance
of +/-5%
Data Table
Target more than $975 million per year of spending with Over $1 billion spent with small
diverse-owned businesses, driving economic equality in 2025 and diverse-owned businesses
Appendix
our communities. in FY22
12 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from Sustainability
Our CEO
Management and
About WestRock Oversight
Sustainability Oversight
at WestRock The board of directors appoints a Nominating Our Governance Committee provides board-level oversight of policies,
and Corporate Governance Committee (the
Our Commitment Governance strategies and programs related to ESG and sustainability matters.
Governance Committee) with responsibility for Committee
to Sustainability
overseeing sustainability matters. The senior
2022 Sustainability vice president of strategy and sustainability
Highlights reports to the president of global paper, who
Management
Sustainability Targets reports to the CEO. The senior vice president
Executive Our executive leadership team is responsible for
of strategy and sustainability is responsible
֡ Sustainability Leadership establishing our sustainability strategy, including with
for establishing sustainability strategy and
Management respect to climate-related issues.
working with the company’s executives to
and Oversight
drive implementation of sustainability strategy,
Priority Assessment
goals and initiatives.
Stakeholder Implementation
In fiscal year 2022, we established the
Engagement The Sustainability Council, led by the VP of
WestRock Sustainability Council, consisting of Sustainability
Sustainability and consisting of functional leaders
functional leaders from across the enterprise, Council
Supporting People throughout the organization, oversees our
to facilitate ongoing refinement and execution
and Communities sustainability strategy and guides implementation.
of our sustainability strategy through
guidance and the distribution of resources
Innovating for
across business segments. Additionally, Input & Integration
Our Customers and
cross-functional working groups and regional Cross-functional groups and regional networks
Their Customers
Sustainability Networks
sustainability networks provide input to within the organization provide input on the
& Working Groups
help operationalize our strategy throughout sustainability strategy, develop plans to achieve
Bettering the Planet
the business. For more information on our our sustainability targets and embed our
governance of sustainability at WestRock, sustainability goals into our operations.
Corporate Governance
see page 61.
For more information on board oversight of sustainability and issues related to climate change, see our TCFD Index.
ESG Performance
Data Table
Appendix
13 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from Priority Assessment To ensure our sustainability strategy reflects current and
Our CEO emerging trends, including stakeholder expectations and
relevant proposed regulations related to sustainability
About WestRock WestRock reports on topics that we consider priorities topics, we plan to complete a full priority assessment in
for our business and our stakeholders. We conducted an calendar year 2023 to further inform and refine our long-
Sustainability internal assessment in 2015 to define priority topics for our term strategy.
at WestRock stakeholders. We have repeatedly reviewed and refined
that assessment in subsequent years, including through
Our Commitment Stakeholder Engagement
external stakeholder reviews in 2017 and 2019. Those
to Sustainability
reviews produced recommendations that provided greater
2022 Sustainability context and transparency, allowing us to demonstrate the
We continually evaluate our business, including
Highlights link between our sustainability goals and overall business
our sustainability efforts, through the lens of key
Sustainability Targets strategy. Those recommendations have also informed
stakeholders: organizations and individuals who affect
our approach to reporting, as demonstrated by this
Sustainability and are affected by the financial, commercial and/or
report. It is important to note that a priority assessment
Management operational aspects of our business. Our stakeholders
for sustainability reporting purposes is different from the
and Oversight include our team members, customers, communities,
materiality assessment used in connection with our filings
֡ Priority Assessment governments and governmental agencies, investors,
with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Issues
nongovernmental organizations and suppliers.
֡ Stakeholder deemed to be priority topics for purposes of this report,
Engagement and disclosures related to those topics therein, may not be Their perspectives on key areas of interest provide
considered material for SEC reporting purposes. vital insights that inform our sustainability efforts and
Supporting People strategies. We communicate with our stakeholders about
The following topics form the foundation for our 2022
and Communities a wide variety of issues through stakeholder meetings,
Sustainability Report. We believe that focusing our efforts
customer satisfaction surveys, employee engagement
on managing, measuring and reporting on them positions
Innovating for surveys, sales contacts, meetings, conferences, direct
us to advance our commitments and goals.
Our Customers and engagement and social media. For more details on our
Their Customers approach to stakeholder engagement, see page 15.
Bettering the Planet Priority Sustainability Topics
Responding to
Corporate Governance
֡ Energy ֡ Communities Stakeholder Feedback
ESG Performance ֡ Fiber Sourcing and ֡ Diversity and Inclusion
Data Table Certifications As part of our commitment to transparency,
֡ Ethics and Conduct
and based on feedback from external
֡ Waste Recycling
Appendix ֡ Health and Safety stakeholders, we published our latest
֡ GHG Emissions ֡ Business Performance consolidated EEO-1 Report as submitted to
֡ Water the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity
֡ Innovation
Commission. The report can be found here.
14 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from How We Engage with Our Stakeholders
Our CEO
About WestRock
Key ESG-Related
Our Stakeholders Engagement Channels
Sustainability Engagement Topics
at WestRock
Team engagement surveys
Health and Safety, Diversity, Inclusion,
Our Commitment New hire and exit surveys Commercial development center
Equity and Belonging (DIEB), Training
to Sustainability Safety and other team meetings and newsletters Operations learning and development function
and Education, Engagement and
Team members WestRock Resource Groups (WRGs) Global employee water use education campaign
2022 Sustainability Retention, Circular Economy, Innovation,
Leadership excellence, elevate and essentials Chief Compliance Officer news distribution
Highlights Environmental Water Stewardship,
programs Enterprise Innovation Council
Product Stewardship
Sustainability Targets Learning management system
Sustainability
DIEB, Environmental Sustainability, Customer Advisory Board (CAB) Responsible forestry/fiber procurement certifications
Management
Circular Economy, Innovation, Waste Customer partnership engagement Supplier environmental safety certifications
and Oversight Customers
and Recycling, Responsible Sourcing, Customer satisfaction surveys Trade conferences
Priority Assessment Sustainable Forestry, Product Stewardship Supplier principles of conduct Packaging GHG life cycle assessments
֡ Stakeholder
Diversity-targeted company spending
Engagement Community members Food Security, Training and Education, Organizational partnerships
STEM and technical education access
& non-governmental DIEB, Environment and Sustainability, Nonprofit sponsorships
Sponsorship engagement
Supporting People organizations (NGOs) Workforce Development, Public Policy Employee volunteerism Trade association membership
and Communities
Board Composition and Oversight,
Executive Compensation, Environmental Annual reports and other public disclosures Investor meetings
Innovating for Investors
Sustainability Strategy, DIEB, Talent Participation in investor conferences Earnings calls
Our Customers and
Management and Retention
Their Customers
Supplier Diversity, Responsible Sourcing, Supplier principles of conduct Request for Proposal support
Suppliers
Product Stewardship, Human Rights Supplier diversity awards and events Supplier interactions
Bettering the Planet
Trade association memberships
Governments and International, federal, state and local
Public Policy and Advocacy Interaction with public officials and government
Corporate Governance government agencies policy engagement
agency representatives
ESG Performance
Data Table
Appendix
15 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
Supporting
People and
Communities
Our community of approximately 50,000
team members lives and works in more
than 300 locations in 30 countries around
the world. Their success is a key driver in
our ability to build a strong and sustainable
future at WestRock. We are committed
to fostering a safe, diverse and inclusive
workplace through programs and policies
that help team members thrive in their work
and in their communities.
16 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from
Supporting People
Our CEO
About WestRock
and Communities
Sustainability
at WestRock
Supporting People
Engaging Our People Learning from Our Team
and Communities
֡ Engaging Our People Our team members are essential to our ability to be the At WestRock, we are dedicated to actively listening to our As part of our overall listening strategy, we conduct new
Health and Safety world’s best paper and packaging company. team members and using their unique perspectives to hire and exit surveys, which are designed to help us
create more effective ways of working. We conduct surveys understand the ways various factors contribute to early
Diversity, Inclusion,
We seek to be an employer of choice, and we use our to measure employee engagement across multiple metrics success and long-term retention. In the new hire surveys,
Equity and Belonging
company values of integrity, respect, accountability and and develop improvement plans every 24 months. In fiscal 94% of salaried team members and 82% of hourly team
Engaging Our excellence to guide our efforts. We intentionally cultivate year 2022, 77% of team members participated in a pulse members (from a much smaller sample) reported being
Communities a diverse, inclusive and engaged workplace focused on version of the engagement survey, sharing their views on satisfied that they joined WestRock.
people and safety. the company and their work environment.
Innovating for Our
Customers and At WestRock, we value diversity of perspectives and Managers receive a composite of their team’s survey
Their Customers experiences and strive to create an environment where all results, which they can share with their teams to develop
team members feel a sense of well-being and belonging. an action plan for improvement together. This year, 73%
Bettering the Planet We actively seek to attract, hire, develop and retain of participants reported being extremely satisfied with
people from different backgrounds, and we work to build WestRock as a place to work, and 74% of responding team
Corporate Governance collaborative, engaged and productive teams. members reported feeling a sense of belonging
at WestRock.
Our focus on safety, well-being and belonging contributes
ESG Performance
to a workplace where individuals can build meaningful
Data Table 2022 Employee Engagement Survey Results4
careers and do their best work.
Appendix
Cross-Industry
Annual Target: Survey Item FY21 % Favorable FY22 % Favorable
Benchmark5
Performance Update
I feel as if I belong here. 74% 74% 78%
77% employee engagement, Where I work there is good teamwork and
65% 70% 69%
cooperation between departments.
closing in on our annual
My immediate supervisor is an effective leader. 76% 79% 78%
goal of 85%.
4 FY21 was a full employee engagement survey; FY22 was a pulse version of the engagement survey.
5 The cross-industry benchmark is a benchmark provided by Workforce Science Associates (WSA) representing a three-year rolling average of employee
responses from more than 400 organizations and 116 million respondents worldwide.
17 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from Attracting and Retaining Top Talent
Our CEO
Investing in our talent acquisition processes and teams continued to help WestRock remain
About WestRock
competitive in a constrained talent market in fiscal year 2022. Our retention and attrition
dashboards provided leaders with real-time data about our staffing needs, while our retention
Sustainability
task force provided insights into team member attrition or retention. In fiscal year 2022, we
at WestRock
hired 15,055 and experienced the attrition of 14,935 globally. Like many corporations, we
experienced elevated attrition (+27%) and hiring requirements (+21%) year over year.
Supporting People
and Communities
Photo credit: Hiroki Nishioka
֡ Engaging Our People Workforce Attraction and Retention
Health and Safety
We continue to invest in building an exceptional talent pool through new offerings and
Diversity, Inclusion,
WestRock Team Member and Para Powerlifter
initiatives to include:
Equity and Belonging
Alex Adelaide Strives to Compete Against the
Engaging Our ֡ Making part-time work and benefits available to employees who work 20 hours or more
Communities per week. World’s Best
֡ Introducing part-time schedules in salaried roles and manufacturing operations to offer
Innovating for Our
team members enhanced flexibility to return to work and balance their personal lives post- Alex Adelaide, payroll coordinator at WestRock’s location in St. Pierre des Corps,
Customers and
pandemic, transition into retirement or reduce full-time work and return full time as desired. France, is strong. The 37-year-old father of two bench-presses 130 kilos (286
Their Customers
pounds), and he’s training to build up to 140 kg, or 308 lbs — enough to qualify for
֡ Offering paid parental leave.
the 2023 Para Powerlifting World Championships in Dubai.
Bettering the Planet ֡ Expanding the Federation for Advanced Manufacturing Education (FAME) apprenticeship
program, developed in partnership with the Manufacturing Institute, to additional WestRock “The most important things for me are my family, work and sport,” he says. “I’m
Corporate Governance facilities, attracting new team members by providing skill-building and on-the-job training at always trying to do better in each area. I think that makes for a happy life.”
WestRock facilities.
Participating in last year’s championships meant taking 10 days away from work
ESG Performance
֡ Providing the Safety Rotational Program and Technology Leadership Programs focused on
to travel to the country of Georgia in far southeastern Europe — no small ask for
Data Table
developing leadership skills in team members early in their careers.
someone who manages payroll for five plants. “It was not easy, but I appreciated
֡ Implementing the Path to 500 Hires program, with the goal of converting 60% of our early that my manager had the confidence in me to do my job while competing,”
Appendix
career talent from rotational to full-time employees. recalls Adelaide.
We are committed to developing an outstanding group of skilled individuals and a workplace Adelaide balances busy family and work schedules with up to five workouts per
culture that fosters collaboration and encourages each team member to be their authentic week. “Sport brings me great happiness,” he says. “It’s on me to make it happen,
self. We believe this type of environment is crucial to enabling our team members to achieve just like it’s on me to do a good job at work.”
peak performance daily, which will support our goal of becoming the world’s best paper and
packaging company. The World Championships won’t be Adelaide’s first international competition. He
raced in the 400-meter wheelchair event at the 2016 Paralympic Games in Rio
de Janeiro, Brazil, and in September 2022 he lifted against Europe’s strongest
para-athletes at the European Para Powerlifting Championships, where his team
finished fourth out of a field of 16.
18 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from Investing in Talent WestRock partners with customers to develop solutions to
Our CEO their business and sustainability challenges. To maximize
our value as a partner, we approach our customers with
To be the world’s best paper and packaging company, we
About WestRock a holistic view of their needs, goals and challenges.
need exceptional talent. We seek to continually refine our
In fiscal year 2022, we designed a seller’s guide that
strategies for investing in and developing talented team
Sustainability highlights successful behaviors and pivotal moments
members, with a focus on learning and leadership training.
at WestRock across the customer buying journey. We also refreshed
We work to provide an environment in which our team
our Commercial Development Center, a simulated selling
members can grow, make meaningful impacts and realize
Supporting People experience that provides sellers with a deep understanding
their potential.
and Communities of their strengths and areas for development as well as
plans for progress.
֡ Engaging Our People
Learning and Development
Health and Safety In fiscal year 2023, we plan to round out our sales development
Diversity, Inclusion, focus with a commercial academy designed to support
Equity and Belonging The ladder of leadership development provides the learning and development of our sales teams worldwide.
framework for growing and sustaining WestRock leaders
Engaging Our
for tomorrow. Our learning and development programs
Communities
include structured experiences, facilitated by experts.
Our goal is to continuously improve our leaders’ ability to
Innovating for Our
anticipate business changes, understand customer needs
Customers and
and expectations, and drive effective execution of our
Their Customers
business strategies and plans while developing engaged
and ready teams.
Bettering the Planet
We are fostering a culture of learning and reducing barriers
Corporate Governance to technical education and skills development, helping us
to build operations teams with the skills and capabilities
ESG Performance needed today and in the future. The operations learning
Data Table and development curriculum is designed to drive greater
consistency and rigor in how team members acquire and
enhance their technical capabilities starting their first day
Appendix
on the job.
19 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from
2030 Target: Progress Update
Our CEO Developing Our Leaders
About WestRock We have provided ֡ Leadership Excellence focuses on senior
manufacturing training to leaders and the key attributes necessary for
Sustainability
success. The program takes a broad view
at WestRock
330K+ of WestRock’s business and industry and
explores the challenges and opportunities in our
Supporting People marketplace, helping leaders develop strategies
and Communities
and operational plans.
֡ Engaging Our People individuals since FY19, on track
֡ Leadership Elevate is aimed at developing
Health and Safety to reach our goal of training WestRock’s mid- to senior-level leaders through
1 million individuals by FY30. facilitated discussions, interactions with peers
Diversity, Inclusion,
Success in Accelerating
and early career team members, a business
Equity and Belonging
simulation and dialogue with senior leaders. The Leadership: Mychal Jones
Engaging Our
program provides a deep view into our business,
Communities Leading change is rapidly becoming a core capability
an understanding of company priorities and the
for our leaders and a critical skill for team members, as Over the course of his eight years with WestRock,
skills and mindset needed to further company
Innovating for Our we advance our processes, systems and increase the Mychal Jones has helped foster a culture of continuous
goals and strategy.
Customers and automated manufacturing methods that run our businesses improvement, safety and performance excellence —
Their Customers and serve our customers. To strengthen our change ֡ Leadership Energize supports mid-level leaders and he exemplifies the path to leadership growth.
readiness and capabilities, we instituted a formal change who do not attend Leadership Elevate. The
Bettering the Planet readiness framework that helps leaders move change program provides insight into our leadership As a printing department supervisor and
forward. The program outlines how to set outcomes, model and the skills necessary for successful performance excellence lead in West Chester,
Corporate Governance assume leadership roles, embed pivotal shifts and leadership in our organization. It is slated for Ohio, Mychal supervised four machines and 16
reinforce and sustain new ways of working. design in fiscal year 2023. team members. Later, as a regional manufacturing
manager for corrugated containers, he helped
ESG Performance ֡ Leadership Essentials focuses on developing
develop the complex process of transitioning a
Data Table the skills necessary to transition from a team
traditional 24/5 manufacturing facility to a facility
member to a people leader. The program was
with a 24/7 “alternative work schedule.” The move
Appendix piloted in fiscal year 2021 and continued through
helped care for and retain team members while
fiscal year 2022.
supporting the division’s business goals.
Mychal is now an operations manager at WestRock’s
Covington, Georgia, location, and he is in his second
rotation in the Accelerated Leadership Program.
The program supports him in his goals, including
finishing his MBA at the University of Chicago
Booth School of Business, increasing his enterprise
knowledge at WestRock and becoming a successful
general manager.
20 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from Health and Safety Our Primary Goal:
Our CEO
Eliminating Life-Changing Events
About WestRock At WestRock, safeguarding the health, safety and overall
welfare of our team is a top concern and critical to attracting Eliminating life-changing events (LCEs), including serious
Annual Target: Progress Update
Sustainability and retaining the best talent, while also playing a pivotal role injuries, such as multiple fractures and amputations and
at WestRock in realizing our business and sustainability objectives. fatalities, is our top safety goal. We maintain a safety-
focused culture that engages all team members. In fiscal
We implement our health and safety requirements through Reducing Our LCEs
Supporting People year 2022, we reduced LCEs to two, down from four in fiscal
a comprehensive, company-wide Safety Excellence System We have reduced LCEs by 92% since FY19.
and Communities year 2021.
(SES) that includes global policies, performance standards,
Engaging Our People implementation tools, guidance documents, standardized
We believe the best way to achieve our goal of zero
forms, best practice sharing and operational learning.
֡ Health and Safety
LCEs is to focus on reducing risks in situations with the
The system applies to all WestRock sites, business units FY19 24
Diversity, Inclusion, highest potential for harm. We employ a robust strategy
and operations worldwide, including joint ventures,
Equity and Belonging with defined, measurable targets for both leading
partnerships and other business arrangements where
Engaging Our WestRock holds a majority ownership interest or majority indicators, such as participation in the identification of FY20 14
safety concerns and completion of training, and lagging
Communities voting control, as well as sites where WestRock has agreed
indicators, such as lost workday rates (LWDR).
by contract to manage a business.
FY21 4
Innovating for Our
In fiscal year 2022, we continued our enterprise-wide
Customers and WestRock has implemented a company-wide safety
safety efforts around the human and organizational
Their Customers management software system designed to strengthen performance (HOP) philosophy, which emphasizes FY22 2
our SES processes and improve how we promote team
minimizing LCEs by continuously improving the safety
members’ health and safety. Through annual SES self-
Bettering the Planet
of our systems and involving team members in focused
assessments, ongoing monitoring and internal safety
learning efforts. 0 5 10 15 20 25
audits, we seek to ensure compliance with applicable
Corporate Governance
policies and performance standards.
ESG Performance
Data Table
The WestRock Safety Excellence System Human and Organizational Performance (HOP)
Appendix
֡ People: Strengthen our culture through safety leadership In fiscal year 2022, WestRock continued its focus these insights by providing team members with a
and team member engagement. on HOP, which builds safety systems that account mechanism for expressing concerns and reporting
for human imperfection. The HOP approach seeks injuries, and by seeking to foster a culture of
֡ Prevention: Assess and control risk through continuous
to build and continuously improve systems that listening and learning.
improvement, innovation and closure.
contain safeguards to protect team members when
֡ Process: Build our safety foundation through execution of a mistakes happen. In fiscal year 2022, we completed international
common, sustainable health and safety system. HOP training in Canada, Europe and Brazil.
HOP includes an emphasis on developing greater Training in Mexico is expected to be completed
֡ Performance: Drive engagement through proactive key
understanding of team member practices and the in fiscal year 2023.
performance indicators.
underlying reasons problems occur. We cultivate
21 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
OOSSHHAA RReeccoorrddaabbllee
A Message from Health and Safety Performance O IIS nnH cciiA dd eeR nne ttc RRor aad tteeable Incident Rate
Our CEO
ReRRceeoccroodrrddaaabbbllleee IIInnnjjjuuurrriieeiesss//11/001000 EE0mm Eppmlloopyyeeloeeyssees
From fiscal years 2019 through 2022, we reduced life- do. To improve our safety performance, we are continuing
About WestRock
changing events (LCEs) by more than 90%. During this our focus on eliminating LCEs, which we believe will
11..77
same period, our OSHA recordable incident rate (RIR) cascade improvements throughout our safety program and
Sustainability remained relatively flat, and our lost workday (LWD) rate ultimately help us reduce injuries of all types. We also are 11..6688 11..6699
at WestRock
increased slightly. introducing Human Organizational Performance principles 11..6611
in an effort to enhance our safety culture, increase the
Supporting People While we are pleased with our progress in preventing resiliency of our safety systems and drive continual 11..5566
and Communities serious injuries, we recognize that we still have work to
improvement in our performance on all safety metrics.
11..00
Engaging Our People
֡ Health and Safety
Award-Winning Safety and Innovation
Diversity, Inclusion,
Equity and Belonging
We work hard to build, maintain and continually enhance our culture of safety. WestRock, our teams and our people
Engaging Our
are regularly recognized by the industry for our commitment to and advances in safety management.
Communities
00
֡ Tim Elizondo of the St. Paul, ֡ The American Forest and
Innovating for Our
Minnesota mill earned the Pulp Paper Association (AF&PA) FFYY1199 FFYY2200 FFYY2211 FFYY2222
Customers and
and Paper Safety Association presented WestRock with a
Their Customers
(PPSA) Distinguished Service 2022 Sustainability Award for
Award for leadership and developing and installing an Lost Workday Rate
LLoosstt WWoorrkkddaayy RRaattee
Bettering the Planet
service within the association. independent hydraulic system NuNNmuummbebbeer rro oofff D DDaaayyysss///111000000 EE Emmmppllpooyyloeeyeessees
that covers the hogger/shredder
֡ Cary Harrison of the Hopewell, Virginia facility
Corporate Governance used to cut down sheets of cardboard. This safety
earned the PPSA Safety Leader of the Year Award,
innovation is designed to improve ergonomics for the 1188
which recognizes a forest products industry leader
ESG Performance operator and reduce the risk of serious injury.
who has demonstrated unique, engaging and 1166
Data Table
effective approaches to company safety programs 1144 1166..0000 1166..1144
with profound and positive impact on safety in the
Appendix 1155..0044
forest products industry. 1122
֡ The Nicholasville, Kentucky consumer packaging 1100 1111..8866
team earned the PPSA Safety Committee of the Year
88
Award for significant contribution to safety and health
at their location, company or within the industry. 66
44
22
00
FFYY1199 FFYY2200 FFYY2211 FFYY2222
22 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from Working Together to WestRock Health and Safety Teams Health and Safety team
Our CEO
Identify and Reduce Risks responsibilities may include:
WestRock has Health and Safety teams and committees
About WestRock
throughout the organization, as well as site, business and
Ensuring a safe and healthy workplace is a collective ֡ Working cohesively to encourage team member
corporate safety councils. These teams may consist of
Sustainability responsibility, requiring collaboration across our enterprise engagement, empowerment and communication.
management and team member representatives. Health
at WestRock to identify and mitigate health and safety hazards as we
and Safety teams review a variety of leading and lagging ֡ As appropriate, establishing sub-teams to
strive together to eliminate life-changing events.
safety indicators, looking to identify areas of potential address specific safety and health issues, such
Supporting People
We are working to improve safety by identifying, reporting improvement and are guided by the WestRock Safety as developing local safety recognition programs,
and Communities
and reducing exposures in our work environment. We aim to Excellence Systems (SES). testing new personal protective equipment and
Engaging Our People provide positive recognition for our teammates when they developing local training following incidents.
֡ Health and Safety take these actions. WestRock has processes for teammates ֡ Ensuring completion of hazard and risk
Diversity, Inclusion, to use for identifying and reporting safety concerns or assessments and accomplishment of exposure
Equity and Belonging hazards in their own language at the site level. These reduction plans.
concerns are evaluated, and we seek to implement solutions
Engaging Our ֡ Sustaining interest in safety and health by
to reduce risk before incidents can occur. We do not tolerate
Communities developing regular communications, such as
retaliation for team members reporting safety concerns.
posting safety meeting minutes or creating a
Innovating for Our WestRock applies a robust approach to identifying and monthly newsletter in conjunction with site
Customers and controlling safety risks at its sites with health and safety leadership and other teams.
Their Customers risk assessment and reporting tools. These tools include
֡ Educating and engaging managers, supervisors
risk assessment processes for safe work planning and
and employees at all levels in safety and health.
Bettering the Planet procedural and compliance-based auditing. These tools
֡ Creating a safety excellence culture in
are intended to proactively identify, predict and control the
the workplace.
Corporate Governance risk of injury for a range of activities - operational, personal,
occupational, routine and non-routine. ֡ Ensuring consistent application of the SES and
ESG Performance reviewing site conformity with SES requirements
We communicate relevant information to our team members
Data Table at least annually.
regarding work-related incidents and actions taken in
response. In addition, we share internal and external best ֡ Establishing site health and safety goals,
Appendix practices with our facilities. developing and executing plans to achieve them,
and tracking progress against them.
֡ Reviewing LCE prevention initiatives and any
potential or actual LCE incidents.
֡ Integrating safety and health into operating
procedures and programs.
֡ Facilitating compliance with federal and state
safety and health standards.
23 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from Health and Safety Training WestRock uses a variety of course design and delivery
Our CEO methods for these training programs. Courses may be built
entirely in-house at a given site, created in partnership
Training is a key element in our focus on safety excellence.
About WestRock with electronic safety training content vendors and made
WestRock provides occupational health and safety training
available through our learning management system,
to team members based on their exposure to potential
Sustainability created and made available by our corporate safety team or
hazards and risks in the workplace. Our training extends to
at WestRock designed and presented by third-party experts.
visitors and contractors, depending on the nature of their
visit to our facilities. Training needs are determined based Training sessions may be live, computer-based or a
Supporting People
on hazard assessments for tasks performed. mixture of the two, and may include “Go & Do” exercises for
and Communities
immediate application. The frequency of training varies; in
WestRock training addresses regulatory standards as well
Engaging Our People many cases, it is dictated by local regulatory requirements.
as additional measures needed to drive safety excellence.
֡ Health and Safety
Our training content includes, but is not limited to, topics Training is presented in the languages necessary to be
Diversity, Inclusion, such as: understood by WestRock team members at a local site.
Equity and Belonging Knowledge may be assessed in various ways, such as
֡ Emergency Response
Engaging Our quizzes, audits of implementation effectiveness at the job
Communities ֡ Control of Hazardous Energy/Lockout-Tagout site, safety performance (both leading and lagging metrics)
and practical application.
֡ Ergonomics
Innovating for Our Exemplary Leadership in
֡ Machine Guarding
Customers and
Safety Practices at Our Sites
Their Customers ֡ Pandemic Response/COVID
֡ Human and Organizational
Bettering the Planet ֡ The entire team at WestRock’s Hendersonville,
Performance (HOP)
North Carolina converting facility has taken
Corporate Governance safety to heart, with eight active Health and ֡ Injury and Illness Reporting
Safety teams engaged to quickly address open
Safety Excellence System scorecard action
ESG Performance
items and opportunities. Other notable efforts
Data Table
include building a safety management system,
integrating safety into day-to-day operations
Appendix
and actively working to grow HOP fundamentals
throughout their operation.
֡ Our Dublin, Georgia containerboard mill saw
a 47% year-over-year reduction in recordable
incident rate and leads the mill group for
contractor safety improvements. Their culture of
safety includes an active hourly safety committee
and leverages HOP and operational learning as
the cornerstone to success.
24 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from Diversity, Inclusion, Engaging on DIEB with WestRock Resource Groups
Our CEO
Equity and Belonging
About WestRock Our WestRock Resource Groups (WRGs) continue to grow and drive positive change within our company.
We sponsored seven WRGs in fiscal year 2022.
At WestRock, we believe that diversity, inclusion, equity
Sustainability
and belonging (DIEB) are competitive advantages that
at WestRock
make us a better company. We are dedicated to creating
a work environment where all team members feel they
Supporting People
belong, are respected and valued and can do their best
and Communities
work. Together, we are working to make this vision a reality
Engaging Our People for our team members around the planet. We understand
Health and Safety that empowering our team members to be at their best is
essential as WestRock seeks to be the world’s best paper
֡ Diversity, Inclusion,
and packaging company.
Equity and Belonging
Engaging Our A component of executive compensation is tied to our
Communities performance on DIEB matters.
Innovating for Our
Customers and
Advancing DIEB at WestRock
Their Customers
Bettering the Planet Education
Corporate Governance Our managers and team members — both salaried
and hourly — undergo training to identify and address
ESG Performance unconscious bias.
Data Table Bringing Diversity to the Forefront at WestRock in Brazil
In fiscal year 2022, 80% of our U.S. salaried and 62% of
Appendix our U.S. hourly team members participated in Blind Spots WestRock Brazil has made important advancements with initiatives in DIEB. For
training. Raising awareness of blind spots helps team example, Formare is a professional qualification program for young people in
members perform in ways that promote inclusion and socially vulnerable situations. The program launched in the city of Pacajus and
belonging when engaging with each other, our stakeholders provided classes given by 81 WestRock employee volunteers. It focuses on women,
and our customers. We intend to reach 100% completion of LGBTQ+ individuals, people of color and persons with disabilities. Roughly 60% of
the training by our global team members by the end of 2023. participating students were hired by the Pacajus plant.
WestRock Brazil has taken key lessons learned about DIEB and developed a
framework called SEEDBOX to help our customers and other companies on the implementation, governance and
maintenance of diversity programs.
25 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from Recruitment or ethnic diversity of our U.S. workforce also rose year-
Our CEO over-year, from 33.4% to 35.1%. We also experienced an
increase in women and racially or ethnically diverse talent in
WestRock’s talent acquisition team and programs
About WestRock continue to focus on increasing our diverse hiring through executive and management positions in fiscal year 2022.
partnerships on college campuses, in our rotational
The percentage of participants in our Early Career rotational
Sustainability programs and through veteran and military programs.
development programs who are women increased from
at WestRock The practices of posting open positions both internally
37% in fiscal year 2021 to 38% in fiscal year 2022, as did
and externally, seeking diverse slates of candidates and
the percentage of participants who are racially and/or
Supporting People establishing diverse interview panels have contributed to
ethnically diverse (from 58% in fiscal year 2021 to 61% in
and Communities our positive results.
fiscal year 2022).
Engaging Our People
We have expanded partnerships with seven historically
WestRock continues to commit to hiring transitioning
Health and Safety Black colleges and universities (HBCUs) and continue
military members and veterans. We are building on our long
֡ Diversity, Inclusion, to invest in diversity-focused external professional history of supporting veterans through our partnership
Equity and Belonging development programs with emphasis on women and with the Manufacturing Institute’s Heroes MAKE America
people of color.
Engaging Our program. In fiscal year 2022, WestRock attended
Communities The Thurgood Marshall College Fund and WestRock have approximately 50 employment events, helping increase
our veteran new hires from 6% in fiscal year 2021 to 6.7%
partnered to offer financial assistance of up to $10,000 to
Innovating for Our 14 outstanding students attending HBCUs in the 2023–2024 in fiscal year 2022. We ended fiscal year 2022 with 8.1%
Customers and academic school year. Recipients will have the ability to representation of veteran and military among our team
Their Customers receive an additional $10,000 for a second year based on members, with a goal of achieving 10% representation of
veteran and military talent by 2025.
positive academic standing.
Bettering the Planet
WestRock activated several new partnerships to help
We remain committed to increasing the diversity of our
achieve that goal. They include the Military Spouse
workforce. In fiscal year 2022, WestRock increased the
Corporate Governance
Employment Partnership, Virginia Chamber Hire Vets Now
percentage of women globally in our workforce to 22.3%
and U.S. Chamber Hiring our Heroes programs.
from 21.4% in fiscal year 2021. In addition, the racial and/
ESG Performance
Data Table
2030 Target: Progress Update
Appendix
We continued to advance critical recruitment and retention
programs for women, people of color and military veterans by:
Partnering with HBCUs Partnering with the Supporting Women MAKE
and external professional Manufacturing Institute’s America, a program aimed
programs for women and Heroes MAKE America at closing the gender gap
people of color. program, helping to increase in manufacturing through
veteran new hires by 0.7%. research and mentorship.
26 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from WestRock’s Workforce Representation FY22 Annual Target: Progress Update
Our CEO
Regional Distribution
About WestRock Diverse Succession Planning
Global Employees New Hires Turnover
Improved year-over-year women and ethnic diversity
Sustainability 7.3% 2.5% 5.6%0.5% 5.4% 2.1%
at WestRock 3.4% 4.5% representation in Executive and Management.
10.9% North America
EMEA
Supporting People
Latin America
and Communities
APAC
Engaging Our People
79.3% 90.5% 88%
Health and Safety
֡ Diversity, Inclusion,
Equity and Belonging
Gender Diversity6 Age
Engaging Our
Communities Global EmployeeGslobal EmploNyeewes Hires New HiresTurnover TurnBoovaerrd of DirectoBrsoard of GDliorebcatlo ErmsployeeGslobal EmploNyeewes Hires New HiresTurnover Turnover
38.9% 134.88.%9% 15.6% 14.8% 15.6% 24.1% 24.1%
Innovating for Our 22.3% 22.3% 27.2% 27.2% 24.2% 24.2% 37.2% 37.2% 30.6% 30.6%
33.3% 33.3%66.7% 66.7%
Customers and
Their Customers
Bettering the Planet
46.3% 46.3%
77.7% 77.7% 72.8% 72.8% 75.8% 75.8% 47.2% 47.2% 45.3% 45.3%
Corporate Governance Men WomaMnen Woman Under 30 30–U50nder 30Over 5300–50 Over 50
ESG Performance
Data Table
Gender by Region Salaried and Hourly Racial and/or
Appendix 28.1% 31.1% 203.8245.7% 196.06 20.6% Ethnic Diversity6
GlobaGl lEombapll oEymepelsoyees U.S. EUm.Sp.l oEymepelsoyees
2.1% 2.1%
79.4%
71.9% 74.3% 29.7%29.7%
68.9%
35.1% 35.1%
Men
70.3%70.3% 62.8%62.8%
Women
HourlyHourly
Non-PNOoCn-POCPOC POC
Asia/Pacific EMEA Latin America North America SalarieSdalaried UnspeUcinfisepdecified
6 Gender and racial/ethnic diversity data is based on self-identification.
27 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from Supplier Diversity
Our CEO
We seek to establish and sustain a supply chain that reflects
About WestRock
the diversity present in our customer base and global
markets. WestRock is committed to providing enterprise
Sustainability
procurement opportunities to small businesses owned
at WestRock
by racially and/or ethnically diverse individuals, women,
veterans, people with differing abilities and LGBTQIA+
Supporting People
individuals. WestRock procured more than $1 billion in
and Communities
goods and services in fiscal year 2022 from the nearly 3,800
Engaging Our People small and diverse-owned businesses it engages, beating our
Health and Safety diverse supplier spending goal of $975 million.
֡ Diversity, Inclusion,
Equity and Belonging
2025 Target: Progress Update
Engaging Our
Communities
Innovating for Our Diverse Supplier Spending Six Consulting, Inc. CEO Parth Patel and COO Sam Yehya accept the Georgia Minority Supplier
Development Council’s Supplier of the Year award for 2022. Photo credit: Joi Pearson.
Customers and
Their Customers $1B
spent
A Partnership in Development
Bettering the Planet with
Six Consulting is a diverse team of consulting At the time, WestRock was looking to rebuild its
Corporate Governance
3,800 designers, technologists and analysts based intranet capabilities, and the company’s director of
in Alpharetta, Georgia. The company provides digital content experiences suggested Six bid on the
ESG Performance
Salesforce, Microsoft and enterprise services to project. Six threw its hat in the ring with billion-dollar
Data Table
commercial enterprises and Fortune 500 companies. consulting firms and won the business, going on to
Five years ago, Six qualified for the Georgia Mentor bring the entire company under Microsoft Office 365.
Appendix small and diverse-
Protégé Connection (GMPC), a business development
The relationship built under the GMPC has been
owned suppliers program that matches small businesses with Georgia
beneficial for both companies. WestRock gained a
corporations for a yearlong partnership. After
trusted supplier, and Six grew to 200 employees and
identifying each other as top choices to work together,
tripled revenues as of the end of fiscal year 2022.
Six was paired with WestRock.
In fiscal year 2022, Six was presented the Georgia
Over the course of a year, company leadership at Six Minority Supplier Development Council’s Supplier
met with many WestRock executives. “We learned so of the Year Class III Award and inducted into the
much about communication, data analysis, contracts National Minority Supplier Development Council’s
and negotiation, and we were able to vastly improve prestigious Corporate Plus, of which WestRock is a
our own systems,” says Sam Yehya, chief operating long-time member.
officer at Six.
28 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from Engaging Our Communities
Our CEO
About WestRock Being the world’s best paper and packaging company includes volunteering to spruce up public green spaces, engaging
supporting the communities where our approximately 50,000 students in STEM activities, volunteering with emergency
Sustainability team members live, work, play and grow. We leverage our services organizations and mentoring the workforce of
at WestRock skills and resources to focus on: tomorrow, among other efforts.
֡ Environmental sustainability: Keeping forests as By connecting with nonprofits in their community, our
Supporting People
forests through conservation projects and family team members have a voice in how WestRock invests in
and Communities
landowner programs, and the development and our communities.
Engaging Our People preservation of urban tree canopies and public green
Health and Safety spaces.
Diversity, Inclusion, ֡ Manufacturing workforce development: Helping
Getting in the Recycling Game
Equity and Belonging people build rewarding careers while cultivating the
In partnership with the Atlanta Braves, WestRock team
manufacturing workforce of tomorrow.
֡ Engaging Our members volunteered at select games, contributing to the
Communities ֡ Team member community engagement: Supporting collection of more than 255 tons of recyclable materials at
financial and volunteer commitments to causes about Truist Park in 2022.
Innovating for Our which our team members are passionate.
Customers and
Their Customers
Investing in Our Communities
Bettering the Planet
WestRock invests in our communities through strategic
Corporate Governance
philanthropy partnerships at the enterprise level,
community sponsorships and support for the charitable
ESG Performance
efforts of team members.
Data Table
We are in the process of winding down the WestRock
Appendix Foundation. While we are still making programmatic
grants that align with our areas of focus, we are no longer
accepting applications for future grant cycles. Future
giving will come directly from WestRock, increasing our
ability to give more broadly in the United States and in
communities across our global operating footprint.
Each of the communities where we operate and where our
team members live is unique. We encourage team members
at each facility to identify and participate in activities
that will benefit their particular community. Our locations
connect to their communities through sponsorships,
29 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from Environmental Sustainability Healthy tree canopies play an important role in our The Center for Heirs’
Our CEO communities, providing essential shade, stormwater
Partnerships Property Preservation
management and air filtration. WestRock and our African
About WestRock American/Black + Allies (AABA) WRG partnered with
WestRock focuses its environmental sustainability efforts the Arbor Day Foundation and Trees Atlanta on a multi- WestRock recognizes the vital importance of
Sustainability around forest, water and wildlife conservation projects year, high-impact city project. These organizations work sustainably managed forests in ensuring a reliable
at WestRock in communities where we operate. We understand that to mitigate Atlanta’s tree loss, protect its forests and supply of high-quality fiber. That’s why we collaborate
conservation requires partnership, so we work closely with increase its tree canopy. WestRock provided funding with The Center for Heirs’ Property Preservation®,
Supporting People nonprofits and landowners to continue building toward a for the program and team members participated in a based in Charleston, South Carolina, to provide
and Communities sustainable future. planting project at the Flowering Forest, a tribute to valuable resources to help family landowners manage
the late civil rights leader and Georgia Congressman their forest lands as a financial asset.
Engaging Our People
Partnerships with family landowners are at the core of John Lewis, which will eventually include the planting
Health and Safety our commitment. Healthy forests are essential for our of thousands of flowering trees, shrubs and daffodils In South Carolina’s Lowcountry, much of heirs’
Diversity, Inclusion, business, our communities and our planet. Supporting along much of the 1.5-mile John Lewis Freedom Parkway. property is land historically acquired by formerly
family landowners while promoting sustainable forestry enslaved individuals that has been passed down
Equity and Belonging
practices helps to keep land forested and healthy. We through generations without the benefit of a will.
֡ Engaging Our invest in the work of the American Forest Foundation and 641,000 trees The land is jointly owned by all heirs, making it
Communities
The Center for Heirs’ Property Preservation to provide highly vulnerable to loss. Any heir can sell their
planted through our community partners
resources and education that help family landowners share to a buyer that can work to force the sale of
Innovating for Our
manage their land more sustainably. an entire property at an unfair price.
Customers and
Our partnerships extend outside of North America. In
Their Customers We also partner with environmental organizations including The Center for Heirs’ Property Preservation is
Brazil, the WestRock Forest Honey Program helps support
the Arbor Day Foundation, The Nature Conservancy (TNC) dedicated to helping underserved landowners
communities, generate income and preserve biodiversity
Bettering the Planet and The Trust for Public Land. Through our partnership take control of their land and promotes its
by promoting beekeeping in the native forests preserved
with TNC, we are investing in the revitalization of longleaf sustainable use to help them build generational
by the company, which represent 43% of our land holdings
Corporate Governance pine in the southeast United States. wealth for their families.
in the country.
“We’re excited about our expanded
ESG Performance “We combine the preservation of
partnership with the Arbor Day Foundation
Data Table
biodiversity, income generation for
and look forward to connecting our team
communities and support for social entities,
members around the world to urban tree
Appendix
putting into practice our commitment to a
canopy projects in their communities.
more sustainable future.”
These projects provide impactful volunteer
opportunities, the benefits of which our team - Cynthia Wolgien, director of Sustainability,
Corporate Communication and Social Responsibility,
members can see for years to come.”
WestRock Brazil
- Mandy Burnette, director of Corporate Giving, WestRock
To learn more about our commitment, please watch
our video series, Fiber of Our Being.
2030 Target: Progress Update | Investing in the Environment
We are in the process of vetting partners for our commitment to provide $15 million to community
projects that protect and benefit freshwater sources, working forests and biodiversity.
30 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from Community Education and
Our CEO
Inspiring Future Generations
Workforce Development
About WestRock
WestRock is committed to helping build a skilled “Now she teaches at a STEM school and asked if I
Sustainability manufacturing workforce by investing in education could do it again with her students.”
at WestRock and hands-on skills training. We partner with The
Dale was excited to share what he knows about our
Manufacturing Institute on several programs, including
industry, so he talked to several team members,
Supporting People Heroes MAKE America, which builds connections between
all of whom jumped in to help make this education
and Communities talent from the military community and the manufacturing
opportunity successful.
industry by providing integrated certification and career-
Engaging Our People
readiness training. As part of this program, military
Outfitted with supplies, he visited his daughter’s
Health and Safety
veterans at WestRock connect with transitioning military
school in Blaine, Minnesota, and spent the day
Diversity, Inclusion, members, veterans and military spouses to help them teaching fifth graders about the basics of making
Equity and Belonging manage the return to civilian life and explore career
paper. He and his wife set up an assembly line with a
opportunities in advanced manufacturing. They discuss
֡ Engaging Our dipping station. Each student then rolled, ironed and
how military skills translate to the civilian manufacturing Dale Boyum, an international standards organization
Communities dried their own handmade sheet of paper.
workforce, hold open conversations about the military to (ISO) manager based in International Falls, Minnesota,
civilian transition, help with social networking profiles, host knows it’s never too early to start inspiring young In addition to inspiring the children to learn
Innovating for Our
facility tours and more. people about our industry. about papermaking, Dale shared some important
Customers and
environmental aspects of the process. “We were able
Their Customers
WestRock also supports Women MAKE America, formerly Dale organized a papermaking workshop for elementary
to show how you make paper from recycled materials,
known as the STEP Women’s Initiative, aimed at closing the students at the school where his daughter teaches.
and how we help maintain healthy and abundant
Bettering the Planet
gender gap in manufacturing through recognition, research
forests,” Dale said. “The earlier young people see the
“I’ve been in the paper business for 34 years, and
and mentoring.
benefits of what the paper industry does, the stronger
Corporate Governance when my daughter was in elementary school, I came in
our pipeline will be for future team members looking to
and taught her class how to make paper,” he explained.
make a difference in the world.”
ESG Performance
Supporting Our Team Members
Data Table
Appendix Supporting our communities includes caring for our
team members. That’s why we established the WestRock 736 organizations
Employee Relief Fund as a way for employees to help
take care of one another when disaster strikes close to
supported by WestRock teammates through our
home. This independent, 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization
provides financial assistance to employees around the Grants for Volunteers and Matching Gifts programs
world who suffer financial hardship due to a natural or
man-made disaster. Since its inception in 2005, the fund
has provided more than 1,170 grants totaling more than
$2.67 million to WestRock team members.
31 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
Innovating
for Our
Customers
and Their
Customers
We take pride in our spirit of innovation.
We are investing in research and
development and becoming more
innovative in pursuit of our sustainability
and business goals. At WestRock, we are
developing new technologies, products
and processes to help create a more
circular and sustainable economy.
32 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from
Innovating for Our Customers
Our CEO
About WestRock
and Their Customers
Sustainability
at WestRock
Supporting People
Activating Our Purpose Through Innovation The WestRock Enterprise Innovation Council, formed in fiscal year 2021, helps to
and Communities
drive collaboration on innovation cohesively and effectively throughout our company,
in ways that support our purpose and our business strategy. The cross-functional
Innovating for
Our corporate purpose starts with innovation. Developing new approaches, council consists of 13 leaders from across WestRock.
Our Customers and
materials, processes, machines and products is essential to making paper and
Their Customers
packaging continuously more sustainable. We coordinate efforts in each of these
֡ Activating Our areas to create solutions that meet customer needs, and we collaborate across
Purpose Through WestRock to execute them.
Innovation
Science &
Enhancing Customer
Innovation
Value Through Enterprise
Sustainability Marketing Solutions
Bettering the Planet
Materials Packaging Automation Digitalization
Science Design of Packaging Corrugated Communications
Corporate Governance
Enterprise
ESG Performance
Innovation
Data Table
2025 Target: Progress Update Council
Consumer Sustainability
Appendix
97.8%
Mills Design
of WestRock’s products are recyclable,
Automation Digital
compostable or reusable.
33 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from Enhancing Customer Value Through Sustainability A Forum for Collaboration
Our CEO
Our customers look to us to develop new products
About WestRock Replacing Plastic
and processes that empower them to advance their
sustainability and business objectives. In fiscal
Sustainability
Concern about the impact of plastic packaging on the Replacing plastic rings on cans with CanCollar® year 2022, we created the Customer Advisory
at WestRock
natural environment has led many customers to explore WestRock’s recyclable CanCollar® Eco technology is Board (CAB) as a forum for creative discussion and
ways to replace it with fiber-based alternatives. Our efforts a durable, paperboard-based multipack solution that planning between WestRock and its most strategic
Supporting People
to develop fiber-based alternatives to plastic included the replaces plastic rings that hold together cans. In fiscal year customers. Discussions and actions are designed
and Communities
following types of innovation in fiscal year 2022: 2022, we rolled out CanCollar® X, which enables CanCollar® to address key business challenges, including
for 18- and 24-packs, along with our Fortuna automation sustainability, and to inform WestRock’s strategy.
Innovating for Reducing use of polymer barriers
system that can fit and apply up to 2,000 cans per minute.
Our Customers and WestRock has developed a solution for more sustainable and In fiscal year 2022, the CAB outlined three
Their Customers efficient packaging that reduces the use of polymer coatings. goals, including:
For more information about the materials technology
Activating Our
At the height of the COVID pandemic, there was a shortage of CanCollar and CanCollar X, read “CanCollar® X is the ֡ Developing thought leadership that supports
Purpose Through
of wax used in boxes for shipping fresh produce. WestRock newest sustainable solution from WestRock.” measurable business outcomes
Innovation
pivoted to develop a new package that leveraged existing
֡ Identifying early indicators for market and
֡ Enhancing Customer WetTech® wax replacement technology used in beer boxes
industry trends, innovative solutions and future
Value Through to create an economical shipping solution for celery. The
business goals
Sustainability
boxes can be recycled, helping reduce waste.
֡ Uncovering customer perspectives on the
Bettering the Planet market, industry and WestRock’s business and
strategy to better serve customers
Corporate Governance The CAB provides important insights and
information key to innovation, helping develop near-
ESG Performance and long-term sustainable solutions for WestRock
Data Table and its customers.
“When we started our digital journey, we talked
Appendix
to other industry leaders and they told us that
Born Digital was a concept that has not been
done in the food industry and it would be
very expensive. But when we approached the
WestRock team, they were energized by the
challenge and welcomed us with open arms. The
results of our collaboration enabled an industry
movement. You have been great to work with
and I continue to look forward to furthering
innovation with your team.”
- Guilda Javaheri, Golden State Foods
34 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from Replacing Plastic: Customer Partnerships
Our CEO
About WestRock
Ska Brewing Reduces Plastic with CanCollar®
Sustainability
WestRock in fiscal year 2022 worked with craft brewer Ska Brewing to meet its goal to transition away from plastic four-pack and
at WestRock
six-pack rings in favor of a fiber-based alternative. The partnership resulted in Ska Brewing’s April 2023 announcement that it was
installing WestRock’s CanCollar® CorsairTM machine — enabling the company to replace plastic consumption by up to 95% compared
Supporting People
to alternative plastic multipack options.
and Communities
“The CanCollar®, which promotes circularity, will immediately reduce the amount of plastic Ska contributes to
Innovating for the environment by approximately four tons per year. This contributes to a reduction in overall waste and the
Our Customers and carbon footprint associated with the shipping and storage of our products. The innovation, ethos and ethics
Their Customers behind this solution are what we’re all about.” -Steve Breezley, Chief Operating Officer, Ska Brewing
Activating Our
Purpose Through
Innovation
֡ Enhancing Customer
Value Through
Sustainability
Bettering the Planet
Corporate Governance
ESG Performance
Data Table
Appendix
Leveraging Produce Packaging Alternatives
Developing a More Sustainable Takeout Container
Niagara Orchard and Vineyard Corp. (NOVC), a Canadian produce grower and
Swiss Chalet, a Canadian chain of casual dining restaurants, set a goal to replace rigid shipper, wanted to launch new paperboard carriers to eliminate the plastic
plastic takeout containers with a more sustainable solution. After evaluating packaging clamshells used to package grapes and plums. The strength, durability and
performance requirements, WestRock and Swiss Chalet arrived at a renewable option dependability of the packaging were essential to ensure the produce looked
that leverages EnShield® Natural Kraft (ENK). The design was awarded the PAC Global fresh when delivered to the consumer. NOVC leveraged WestRock’s EverGrow™
Award for Sustainable Design during the Inclusive Opportunities & Universal Design Collection, including baskets, carriers, punnets and tills made with sustainably
Summit in February 2022. sourced wood fiber, which are recyclable depending on the type of barrier used.
35 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from Enhancing Circularity
RECOGNITION
Our CEO
About WestRock Circularity is fundamental to our business. Wood fiber, our primary input, is renewable, and we are constantly working to Packaging
advance recycling for our customers and our company. We pursued the following initiatives, among others, in fiscal year 2022:
Sustainability Awards
Sustainability
at WestRock
Customer Take-Back Partnerships
֡ Dow Packaging Innovation Awards:
Supporting People
Diamond Finalists
and Communities We coordinate transport of recyclable materials with
our customers and suppliers. For example, we work ↳ GSK – NatraPak™
with General Motors as both packaging supplier ↳ Grupo Modelo – CanCollar®
Innovating for
Our Customers and and recycling partner. In 2022, WestRock collected ֡ 61st Japan Packaging Competition: Ministry of
Their Customers approximately 17,000 tons of cardboard from GM. Economy, Trade and Industry Manufacturing
(For more on the GM recycling partnership, see
Activating Our Industries Bureau Director’s Award
page 45.) We also worked with customers to explore
Purpose Through ↳ Asahi – CanCollar® Eco Plus
the feasibility of reusable, returnable crates for
Innovation
beverage and cosmetics packaging. ֡ UK Packaging Awards: Cartonboard Pack
֡ Enhancing Customer of the Year and Highly Commended in the
Value Through Innovation of the Year Category
Sustainability
↳ Heinz UK – Eco-Friendly Multipack Sleeve
Bettering the Planet Expanded Scan.Learn.Recycle.® Pizza Box ֡ 78th Annual North American Paperboard
Packaging Competition Sustainability Award
Recycling Program
of the Year
Corporate Governance
↳ CanCollar® Family with Coca-Cola
WestRock creates tools for customers to use in their recycling Europacific Partners and Lervig
ESG Performance
initiatives. In the summer of 2020, Domino’s announced its mission to
Data Table ֡ PAC Global: Package Innovation
clear up public confusion about pizza box recycling, in part through
Sustainable Design
the Scan.Learn.Recycle. pizza box recycling program WestRock
Appendix ↳ Swiss Chalet – Enshield® Natural Kraft
helped develop. In August 2022, Domino’s added scannable QR
codes on all its pizza boxes, leading consumers to a branded website
built, maintained and hosted by WestRock, where they can look up
pizza box recycling guidelines in their area by ZIP code.
Learn more about WestRock’s partnerships and insights about
pizza box recycling.
For more information about circularity at WestRock, see page 6.
Hear more about the intersection of innovation and circularity from Jim Caudill, Vice President of Packaging Innovation.
36 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from Helping Customers Reduce
Our CEO Collaborating to Advance Food Packaging: WestRock and Tetra Pak
Greenhouse Gas Emissions
About WestRock
Food systems account for one-third of global GHG emissions,7 and yet one-third of food is lost or wasted.8
We partner closely with customers to help them
WestRock customer Tetra Pak, a world-leading food processing and packaging solutions company, is
Sustainability understand and work to reduce their carbon emissions:
collaborating across the food value chain to help transform food systems, focusing on increasing access to safe
at WestRock
food, reducing food loss and waste and building sustainable food systems. For decades, Tetra Pak’s aseptic
Measuring product carbon intensity. In fiscal year 2022,
processing and packaging technology has made it possible to protect perishable foods, extending shelf life and
we advanced our capability to measure the carbon intensity
Supporting People enabling essential food access, even in remote corners of the world.
of each of our products.
and Communities
Tetra Pak holds its suppliers to high sustainability standards on climate, biodiversity and circularity, as well as
Guiding customers. Our size and packaging expertise
Innovating for position us to help customers understand environmental social sustainability. Its standards include requiring suppliers to reduce GHG emissions and to commit to the
Our Customers and considerations related to packaging, including carbon Science Based Target initiative (SBTi). In fiscal year 2022, WestRock validated science-based targets to reduce
Their Customers GHG emissions by 27.5% by 2030 and continued to make investments to further reduce these emissions.
intensity and issues related to recycling.
Activating Our
As a strategic paperboard supplier, WestRock is committed to continued collaboration with Tetra Pak to advance
More accurate box sizing. We helped e-commerce
Purpose Through
our respective sustainability goals.
companies improve efficiency and sustainability with
Innovation
BoxSizer®, an e-commerce packaging machine that
֡ Enhancing Customer
vertically “right-sizes” multiple box footprints, dynamically
Value Through
and on-demand without stopping for changeover.
Sustainability Turnkey Track and Trace Key Priorities for 2023
Bettering the Planet
WestRock helps customers capture the potential offered We focus innovation on areas of greatest value to our
by the internet of packaging. We partner with customers customers. In fiscal year 2023, we expect those areas to
Corporate Governance to apply sensors to containers, provide software solutions include progress on the science and technology of plastic
and maintain dashboards that help them monitor and replacement, partnerships with customers to develop
ESG Performance manage their products in real time. bespoke packaging, design and automation solutions
Data Table — helping them make progress on sustainability while
Sensor tagging and tracking helps customers manage
increasing efficiencies and overcoming labor shortages —
their supply chains and reduce waste. For example,
Appendix and greater use of digitalization.
temperature tracking can alert customers when food is
exposed to too-warm conditions.
Innovating to regionalize supply chains. We worked
with customers to meet their demands for regionalization,
traceability and reduction of steps in their supply chains.
Minimizing transit miles offers potential benefits for
GHG reduction.
7 United Nations UN News, “Food systems account for over one-third of global greenhouse gas emissions,” 2021.
8 Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, “Food wastage footprint: Impacts on natural resources,” 2013.
37 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
Bettering
the Planet
We understand our responsibility as
stewards of the environment. We are
doing our part by reducing greenhouse
gas emissions and water intake, and by
promoting responsible forestry and land
management practices for a low-carbon
future and a better planet.
38 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from
Bettering the Planet
Our CEO
About WestRock
Sustainability
at WestRock
Our Approach to Environmental Climate
Supporting People Sustainability
and Communities As a business that uses natural resources as key inputs
At WestRock, environmental sustainability is good to our products and relies on their availability, we are
WestRock is recognized as a “Giga Guru”
Innovating for business. Customers have ambitious sustainability goals, committed to reducing our impact by decreasing our
Our Customers and and their performance toward those goals is under intense GHG emissions. in Walmart’s Project Gigaton™ supplier
Their Customers
scrutiny from consumers, investors and regulators. The engagement initiative to reduce GHG
We also are continuing to enhance the way we report on
inherently circular nature of our business — and our ability
climate issues relevant to our business. In addition to the emissions by 1 billion metric tons by 2030.
Bettering the Planet to boost environmental sustainability through innovation
climate information in our Annual Report on Form 10-
֡ Climate — positions WestRock to help customers advance toward
K, WestRock has publicly responded to CDP’s9 Climate
their objectives while winning in the marketplace.
Emissions and Energy Change questionnaire every year since 2016. This year our
Waste, Recycling Our environmental targets focus on high-impact areas: Sustainability Report includes for the first time an index
and Circularity informed by the Task Force For Climate-Related Financial
Disclosures (TCFD) framework. The TCFD framework,
Sustainable Forestry
Greenhouse gas (GHG) which is intended to assist organizations in improving the
and Biodiversity emissions reduction
quality, consistency, and transparency of their climate
Water Stewardship information, centers on four areas: Governance, Strategy,
Environmental Risk Management, and Metrics and Targets. In our Index,
Compliance and Packaging we discuss our organizational approach to climate issues,
recyclability
Product Stewardship identify our climate risks as well as our opportunities, and
provide insight on how we are developing our strategy to
Corporate Governance achieve our 2030 science-based target (SBT).
Responsible
fiber sourcing Our strategy for achieving our SBT is multi-faceted and
ESG Performance
includes consideration of several alternatives that can be
Data Table
deployed in combination with energy efficiency projects,
Sustainable forest fuel switching, low carbon technology investments,
Appendix management electricity grid decarbonization, physical and renewable
power purchase agreements and manufacturing footprint
rationalizations. We have processes for regularly evaluating
Water and optimizing our SBT strategy to account for changes in
stewardship markets dynamics and customer preferences, our business
operations, laws and regulations and climate science.
9 Formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project.
39 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from GHG Emissions Reduction GHG Emissions by Scope11
Our CEO
Metric Tonnes COe
2
About WestRock Addressing climate change and reducing our GHG
emissions lie at the core of our sustainability strategy.
7M
While these tasks are challenging, we believe they are Scope 1 & 2 5.6%
Sustainability
at WestRock consistent with our ambition to be the world’s best paper emissions
and packaging company. We have developed and are
implementing a comprehensive strategy to manage and 6M reduction
Supporting People
lower our GHG emissions, and the cornerstone of this
and Communities (FY19 baseline)
strategy is our SBT.
Innovating for During fiscal year 2022, we validated and published our 5M
Our Customers and
SBT. We are focused on honing and implementing the
Their Customers
strategies that are helping us make measurable progress.
4M
Bettering the Planet In addition to reporting our progress against our SBT,
we respond to CDP’s10 Climate Change questionnaire Climate
annually. This year we have included in this report for
֡ Emissions and Energy
the first time an index of climate information informed by 3M
Waste, Recycling the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures
and Circularity (TCFD) framework.
Sustainable Forestry
Our Path to GHG Reduction 2M
and Biodiversity
WestRock is executing a multi-faceted strategy to meet
Water Stewardship our validated SBT. We are assessing a range of additional
efforts, including further improving the energy efficiency
Environmental 1M
Compliance and of our facilities and optimizing the footprint of our
Product Stewardship manufacturing operations, evaluating our fuel mix and
increasing our use of renewable energy.
0
Corporate Governance Our strategy for achieving our SBT may include FY19 FY20 FY21 FY22
participation in renewable power purchase agreements
Scope 1 Direct Emissions
ESG Performance
(RPPAs), energy supply arrangements in which WestRock
Data Table sponsors a developer in building a solar or wind farm. Scope 2 Indirect Emissions (location)
In fiscal year 2022, we began exploring potential RPPA Scope 2 Indirect Emissions (market)
Appendix
options and employed a high level of renewable electricity
across our European converting facilities. We also took 10 Formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project.
steps in our transport network to help reduce GHG 11 Scope 1 fugitive methane emissions from company-owned landfills are not included in our
Scope 1 emissions inventory. Including these emissions in our Scope 1 inventory would
emissions, increasing our use of rail and launching the increase total Scope 1 emissions by 13% in FY19, 15% in FY20, 14% in FY21 and 15% in FY22.
Currently, we have chosen to exclude these emissions from our inventory, as we believe
creation of a regional distribution center network designed default emission factors in existing U.S. EPA calculation methodologies (and other publicly
available estimation methodologies) may not be representative of actual emissions and
to cut down on transport miles and double movements. in some cases overstate the significance of fugitive methane emissions from pulp and
paper industry landfills. Therefore, excluding fugitive methane emissions from company
Outside of WestRock, we continued our support of the owned landfills in our reporting boundary is consistent with The GHG Protocol: A Corporate
Accounting and Reporting Standard.
40 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
6,200,598
2,319,369
3,166,058
6,178,533
2,172,374
3,027,961
6,537,030
2,087,017
2,685,509
6,273,921
1,885,216
2,566,943
2030 Target: Progress Update
A Message from American Forest Foundation’s Family Forest Carbon Our sustainability teams also work closely with our
Our CEO Program, which is working to quantify and incentivize engineering, energy, environmental, finance and
Emissions reduction since
improvements in carbon capture on family forestlands other functional groups to make recommendations on
About WestRock and to improve sustainability practices. operational changes and capital investments for reducing creation of WestRock in 2015
GHG emissions. Some examples of this work include our
We remain focused on making operational and capital
Sustainability ongoing evaluations of physical and renewable power
investments to further reduce GHG emissions, and we
at WestRock projects involving solar energy, as well as opportunities to Absolute Intensity
continue to closely track and evaluate GHG emissions
increase our use of biomass.
25.4% 16.4%
from individual projects to support progress on our
Supporting People
reduction strategy. The WestRock sustainability team
and Communities Helping Avoid GHG Emissions Through
tracks our Scope 1 and Scope 2 market-based GHG
emissions data, and we have again engaged Ernst & Young Our Day-to-Day Operations
Innovating for
LLP (EY), an independent third party, to provide limited
Our Customers and We also help mitigate GHG emissions through aspects
assurance over these metrics. For the EY assurance
Their Customers of our operations such as our North American recycling
statement, see Appendix.
facilities. As one of the largest consumers of recycled fiber
Bettering the Planet Our GHG data is a foundational element of our climate in North America, WestRock manages approximately 7.1
management program. We collect and track GHG emissions million tons of paper and packaging each year. In doing so
Climate
information from our global manufacturing facilities in a we help avoid the significant GHGs that would be released
֡ Emissions and Energy
centralized system that includes internal quality assurance into the atmosphere if the material was otherwise landfilled
Waste, Recycling controls. This data is a crucial component of our GHG and allowed to degrade.
and Circularity management program and helps inform our SBT strategy.
Healthy forests are an important factor in mitigating climate
Our sustainability team routinely uses this data to report
Sustainable Forestry
change. Through our virgin fiber procurement activities,
and Biodiversity progress against our SBT to our manufacturing facilities
we provide economic incentives to family tree farmers
and various stakeholders. In addition to facility-level GHG
Water Stewardship and other private landowners to maintain their holdings as
data calculated using the World Resources Institute’s
Environmental protocols, many of our paper mills track GHG emissions working forests. These forests help to sequester carbon
Compliance and on a source-specific basis and report their Scope 1 values and protect fresh water supplies and habitats for diverse
Product Stewardship to governmental agencies for compliance with U.S. and populations of plant and animal species.
international climate reporting regulations.
As we advance our decarbonization journey, we will continue
Corporate Governance
to assess climate challenges and opportunities.
To help build sustainability awareness throughout the
organization, we have created a calculator that allows
ESG Performance Air emissions of nitrogen oxide (NO ) and sulfur dioxide (SO)
capital project developers to evaluate the associated GHG X 2
Data Table are associated with the pulp and papermaking process, and
emissions, as well as impacts on solid waste generation
we closely monitor emissions of these compounds from our
and water use. This calculator has been incorporated into
Appendix mills. Since our last report, WestRock’s emissions of NO
our Capital Funding Request form and is available for all X
increased slightly, mainly due to production increases. Our
mill projects.
SO emissions during this same period have decreased by
2
approximately 10%.
41 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from Total GHG Emissions Scope 1 & Scope 2 Market-Based CO e Emissions Intensity — All WestRock Mills
2
Our CEO
(Metric Tonnes CO e in Millions) (Metric Tonnes CO e/Tons of Production)
2 2
About WestRock 10M 0.6
0.58
Sustainability 9.37 9.20 9.22 0.57 0.57 0.56
at WestRock
8.84 0.5
8M
Supporting People
and Communities
0.4
Innovating for 6M
Our Customers and
Their Customers
0.3
Bettering the Planet
4M
Climate
0.2
֡ Emissions and Energy
Waste, Recycling
2M
and Circularity 0.1
Sustainable Forestry
and Biodiversity
Water Stewardship 0 0.0
FY19 FY20 FY21 FY22 FY19 FY20 FY21 FY22
Environmental
Compliance and
Product Stewardship
Mill Emissions of NO (Tons) Mill Emissions of SO (Tons)
Corporate Governance X 2
ESG Performance FY19 23,018 FY19 9,544
Data Table
FY2012 23,744 FY2012 9,184
Appendix
FY21 24,400 FY21 11,027
FY22 24,868 FY22 9,936
0 5,000 10,000 15,000 20,000 25,000 30,000 0 2,000 4,000 6,000 8,000 10,000 12,000
12 From FY20 onward, our NOx and SO2 data includes emissions from all global consumer and corrugated mills. Data for years
42 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report prior to FY20 does not include emissions from some of our smaller recycled mills in the U.S. or our paper mills in Brazil or India.
Energy Use
A Message from Energy Energy Use
Our CEO
Reduction
About WestRock Energy plays a critical role in both our operations and manufacturing process. WestRock’s integrated kraft paper
our sustainability efforts. As we work to reduce GHG mills, our most energy-intensive manufacturing facilities, Reduction
emissions, we must optimize cost, fuel reliability and generate more than 60% of their own energy needs by
Sustainability
at WestRock energy efficiency. To achieve these goals, we use a range burning renewable biomass. Most of these facilities We continued to
of fuels such as biomass, natural gas, fuel oil and coal. also generate the steam and power needed for their reduce our use
Our dedicated internal energy group collaborates closely manufacturing processes using combined heat and power of energy in 2022
Supporting People
with our manufacturing sites to advance our energy- (CHP) cogeneration systems, thermodynamically efficient Reductions since creation of
and Communities
related goals, and we track energy use closely across our systems that generate electricity and useful thermal WestRock in 2015
mill system. energy from an integrated system. Reductions, fiscal year 2015
Innovating for
through fiscal year 2022
Our Customers and
Notably, we are exploring ways to expand our use of The majority of our recycled paperboard mills purchase
Their Customers
renewable energy. In fiscal year 2022, we worked to electricity and power their manufacturing processes by
extend renewable electricity contracts and evaluated making their own steam using natural gas–fired boilers.
Bettering the Planet
RPPA projects in Europe, the U.K. and North America. Many of our converting operations purchase electricity and
42.6%
Climate Biomass continues to be our most important energy self-generate steam primarily with natural gas.
source, and it is renewable and part of our circular
֡ Emissions and Energy
reduction in
Waste, Recycling use of coal
and Circularity
Purchased Fuel Efficiency — All WestRock Mills (MMBtu/Tons of Production)
Sustainable Forestry
and Biodiversity
Water Stewardship 13.6%
Environmental FY19 12.70
Compliance and reduction in
Product Stewardship FY20 12.79 electricity purchases
Corporate Governance
FY21 12.71
ESG Performance
Data Table FY22 12.72 5.8%
reduction in
Appendix 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14
total energy use
43 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from Total MMBtu Total Electricity, Steam & Heat Purchases FY22 Electricity & Steam Breakdown13
Our CEO 30M
All Manufacturing Locations & Sales for All Locations MMBtu MMBtu
About WestRock
350M 30M 25M
Sustainability
at WestRock 105.10 20M
S anu dp p Co or mtin mg
u
P ne ito iep sle 300M
105.81 116.43
113.75
25M
658,52
7,42
6,161,62 639,52 38%
15M
358, 2,78 93 897,
10M
Innovating for 20M 41 62%
Our Customers and
Their Customers 250M 5M
Bettering the Planet 15M 0
Climate Renewable
200M 212.70 -5M
֡ Emissions and Energy 203.84 Non-Renewable
196.06 PE SE PS SS
aW na ds t Ce i,
r
cR ue lc ay ric tyling
187.42 10M
hcru rtcel dlo rtcel hcru maet dlo maet
Sustainable Forestry
150M
desa ytici ytici desa
and Biodiversity
3%
Water Stewardship 5M FY22 E16n%ergy Mix FY22 Fossil Fuel Mix
Environmental
3%
Compliance and 38%
100M 16%
Product Stewardship
0
( ( ( (
5 5 5 5
Corporate Governance 2, 3, 8, 4,
6 2 2 2
2 1 9 3
6, 31, 4, 5,
ESG Performance 50M (5M) 27 )5 62 92
Data Table ) ) )
81%
Appendix
62% 81%
0 (10M)
FY19 FY20 FY21 FY22
FY19 FY20 FY21 FY22 RenNeawtuarbalel Gas Natural Gas
Renewable Electricity, Steam & Heat Purchased NonC-oRaelnewable Coal
Non-Renewable Electricity, Steam & Heat Sold Fuel Oil Fuel Oil
13 WestRock does not purchase or sell heat.
44 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from Waste, Recycling and Circularity
PROFILE
Our CEO
About WestRock
Plastic waste is a well-established environmental
problem. In response, many businesses are looking to
Sustainability replace plastics in their products with renewable and
at WestRock recyclable alternatives. A Circular Solution
Supporting People WestRock is well positioned to meet this demand as a for General Motors
and Communities leading provider of fiber-based packaging solutions. We
are working with our customers to develop a wide variety
General Motors (GM) has ambitious sustainability
Innovating for of fiber-based solutions that reduce the use of plastic.
goals. WestRock is helping the storied auto
Our Customers and (See Innovating for Our Customers and Their Customers,
company advance them.
Their Customers page 34.) And we are one of the largest consumers of
old, corrugated containers (OCC) in North America, with GM’s Zero Waste by 2030 initiative includes a goal
Bettering the Planet recycling plants that support our recycled fiber needs. We to divert 90% of the company’s operational waste
have made investments in our recycling plant operations to from landfills and incinerators by 2025. WestRock,
Climate
remove more non-fiber material from mixed paper, allowing GM’s preferred provider for all consumer-facing
Emissions and Energy our paper mills to consume more of it. packaging, partners with GM in that effort.
֡ Waste, Recycling Beginning in 2020, the two companies established a
WestRock promotes and advances circularity throughout
and Circularity “closed-loop” system in which WestRock transports
our value chain. We work with suppliers and customers to
old, corrugated cardboard (OCC) from five GM
Sustainable Forestry optimize backhauls with the supply of recyclable material. For example, many customers come to us with the
processing centers to four WestRock mills, where it
and Biodiversity For example, in fiscal year 2022 we worked with members assumption that recycled fiber is preferable to virgin
can be recycled.
Water Stewardship of our Customer Advisory Board to identify opportunities fiber from an environmental perspective. The reality
to transport materials by coordinating our respective is more complicated. While recycling is essential to a The partnership processed approximately 17,000
Environmental
Compliance and shipment fleets. more circular economy, paper fibers can’t be recycled tons of material in 2022.
indefinitely. As a result, virgin fiber must be fed into the
Product Stewardship
Circularity is simple in concept but nuanced in practice. system continuously to keep the circular economy flowing.
We serve as an expert resource for our customers Sourcing virgin fiber from sustainably managed working
Corporate Governance and suppliers, helping them understand the variety of forests helps keep forestland intact, offering benefits for
considerations involved when seeking to optimize the carbon sequestration, biodiversity and beyond. For more
ESG Performance circular economy. information on circularity at WestRock, see page 6.
Data Table
Appendix
45 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from Waste Management and
Our CEO
Reuse of Materials
About WestRock
We are continually looking for opportunities to optimize
Sustainability our operations, reuse byproducts from our manufacturing
at WestRock process and minimize the solid waste we generate.
Maximizing business opportunities and sustainability
Supporting People benefits from manufacturing processes involves the
and Communities recycling or beneficial reuse of residuals, byproducts and
waste materials produced by our manufacturing facilities.
Innovating for
For example, our wastewater treatment operations
Our Customers and
produce fiber-rich residuals that are burned for fuel in
Their Customers
some of our biomass boilers, applied as landfill cover and
used in composting.
Bettering the Planet
Climate The lime residuals from the kraft pulping processes at
integrated paper mills contain nitrogen, phosphorus
Emissions and Energy
and micronutrients key to strong plant growth. These
֡ Waste, Recycling residuals can be used as effective and economical soil
and Circularity amendments for agricultural and silvicultural operations.
Sustainable Forestry Our manufacturing facilities recycle materials such as used
and Biodiversity oil, spent fluorescent lighting, scrap wood and metal. Claremont team members who helped design this solution:
JT Townsend, Juan Silva, Gene Frye and Mark Frediani (from left to right).
Water Stewardship Several of our paper mills operate their own waste
Environmental management facilities, which are captive units that receive An Ingenious Solution Reduces
Compliance and only nonhazardous residuals from our operations. We
Product Stewardship also send manufacturing waste to third-party recycling Waste and Saves Money
facilities. WestRock has established internal guidelines for
Corporate Governance third-party recycling and waste services providers that Gerry O’Hanlon, general manager of WestRock’s Claremont, North Carolina, facility, was frustrated. The problem:
require them to handle our materials in an environmentally ink cartridges — specifically, the eight-pound plastic cartridges used in printing on fiber-based containers.
ESG Performance responsible and legally compliant manner. Environmental
The cartridges couldn’t be reused, because removing their internal plunger damaged the cartridge. And they
Data Table teams across our company also are engaged in local
couldn’t be recycled, because that plunger trapped residual ink.
initiatives aimed at reducing waste and increasing
Appendix recycling (see Engaging Our Communities, page 30). With the support of WestRock, Hanlon and his team came up with an ingenious solution. They designed and
manufactured a tool that uses air pressure to evacuate the plunger without harming the cartridge, then partnered
with a vendor to design an automatic cartridge-cleaning system.
The result: Each cartridge can now be cleaned and reused up to three times, then recycled — keeping cartridges
out of landfills and saving money in the process.
46 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from Mill Waste Generation (Tons)
Our CEO
About WestRock
FY19 899,700 250,500 216,400
Sustainability
at WestRock
Supporting People FY20 859,500 275,900 224,000
Landfill
and Communities
Waste-to-Energy
Innovating for
Beneficial Use
Our Customers and
FY21 757,300 304,700 188,000
Their Customers
Bettering the Planet
Climate FY22 774,100 344,700 237,700
Emissions and Energy
֡ Waste, Recycling
and Circularity 0 250,000 500,000 750,000 1,000,000 1,250,000 1,500,000
Sustainable Forestry
and Biodiversity
Recovered Materials (Tons) Recovered Fiber Used (Tons)
Water Stewardship
Environmental
Compliance and FY19 FY20 FY21 FY22 FY19 FY20 FY21 FY22
Product Stewardship
North American
Corporate Governance Fiber 8,102,000 7,444,000 7,294,000 6,988,000 Recovered Fiber Tons 5,400,000 5,300,000 5,600,000 5,500,000
Used by WestRock
ESG Performance Percentage of Total
Plastic 59,000 52,500 41,800 38,000
Data Table Recycled Fiber Tons 67% 71% 77% 79%
Managed
Appendix
Aluminum 7,600 3,600 3,800 3,700
Other non-fiber 37,100 34,000 63,600 61,000
Total 8,205,700 7,534,100 7,403,200 7,090,700
47 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from Sustainable Forestry Landowner Forest Management Responsible Fiber Procurement
Our CEO
and Biodiversity
We work with forest landowners to encourage the adoption To ensure the paper and packaging products we make
About WestRock of recognized forest management standards through contain fiber from well-managed forests, we require
Like recycling, sustainable forestry is fundamental and our landowner outreach program. The program provides wood suppliers to meet environmental, social and legal
Sustainability essential to circularity at WestRock. education on land management practices that promote standards. Our team of professional foresters works
at WestRock long-term forest productivity and protect biodiversity. directly with landowners to implement forestry best
Wood fiber used in packaging can be recycled between five WestRock maintains two Independently Managed Group practices, helping them define and achieve their forest
Supporting People and seven times. As fiber completes its recyclable lifespan, (IMG) certificates through the American Tree Farm System management objectives.
and Communities it must be replaced by virgin fiber. Sustainably managed (ATFS), representing more than 379,000 acres in the
forests provide that fiber. Wood fiber is a renewable material: United States. Since 2015, WestRock foresters directly We have created one of the industry’s largest independently
Innovating for By practicing and promoting sustainable forestry practices, supported more than 970,000 acres of forests in the US, audited systems for tracking and confirming that the wood
Our Customers and WestRock helps ensure a future supply of virgin fiber while achieving certification or recertifying to credible third- used in our operations is harvested in ways that comply
Their Customers supporting a host of environmental and social benefits. party forest management standards. For more about with laws, respect human rights and are consistent with
our work supporting landowners and communities, see protection and conservation of natural resources.
Forests are essential to biodiversity, act as natural filters
Bettering the Planet Engaging our Communities, page 30.
for fresh water, sequester carbon and improve air quality. We hold ourselves and our fiber procurement organization
Climate We support private landowners who practice responsible In fiscal year 2022, we worked to make progress toward to high standards. Our multiple certifications are a
Emissions and Energy land management practices, integrating the growing and the sustainability goals we set in fiscal year 2021 for our testament to our commitment to responsible, sustainable
harvesting of trees with the protection and conservation of: forestry practices. In our first year, we reached at least and transparent sourcing.
Waste, Recycling
and Circularity ֡ Soil, air and water quality 20% of our 2030 goals for landowner engagement on ֡ All 12 of our North American virgin fiber sourcing regions
sustainable forestry practices.
֡ Sustainable Forestry ֡ Biological diversity have implemented the SFI© 2022 Fiber Sourcing standard.
and Biodiversity
֡ Our forestland in Brazil is certified to the Brazilian
֡ Wildlife and aquatic habitats
Water Stewardship Forest Certification Programme (CERFLOR), PEFC® and
֡ Forests with high conservation value FSC© standards. For more on our forestry practices in
Environmental
Compliance and ֡ Recreational and aesthetic properties Brazil, see “Sustainable Forestry in Brazil” below.
Product Stewardship ֡ Globally, nearly all of our wholly owned fiber-based
2030 Targets: Progress Update | Promoting Sustainable Forestry manufacturing facilities are chain-of-custody certified
Corporate Governance to internationally recognized standards such as SFI©,
PEFC® and FSC©. We commit to maintaining 100%
ESG Performance certification for all existing facilities and to certifying
Supported landowners Provided education,
Data Table 100% newly acquired, wholly owned facilities.
in the certification of guidance and support to
For further detail, read WestRock’s Sustainable Forestry
Appendix of virgin fiber 457,114 5,550 and Virgin Wood Fiber Procurement Policy. For a full list
of WestRock’s forestry and fiber certifications, visit
landowners
sourced from
WestRock.com.
responsibly acres of forests in sustainable management of
managed forests. since FY19. their forestlands since FY19.
48 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from Virgin Wood Fiber Procured (Tons)
Our CEO Our Partnership with
The Nature Conservancy (TNC)
About WestRock FY19 FY20 FY21 FY22
Sustainability WestRock’s partnership with TNC, established in
at WestRock United States 35,655,428 33,653,982 33,138,126 32,049,650 2017, now operates in Georgia, South Carolina and
Virginia. In fiscal year 2022, our partnership:
Canada 1,731,436 1,698,738 1,514,685 1,452,513
Supporting People
֡ Protected nearly 3,000 acres of forest
and Communities
Brazil 1,858,118 1,679,540 1,852,823 2,686,545
֡ Planted more than 100,000 trees
Innovating for Total 39,244,982 37,032,260 36,505,634 36,188,708 ֡ Managed nearly 53,000 acres of land with
Our Customers and prescribed fire
Their Customers
֡ Launched a groundcover restoration project
in Virginia
Bettering the Planet
FY22 Fiber Sourced ֡ Protected habitat for rare species including the
Climate
endangered red-cockaded woodpecker
Emissions and Energy
AAAllll llW WWeeessstttRRRoooccckkk M MMiliilllsllss CCCooonnnsssuuummmeeerrr M MMiliilllsllss CCCooorrrrrruuugggaaattteeeddd M MMiliilllsllss
Waste, Recycling
and Circularity
֡ Sustainable Forestry
and Biodiversity 333666%%% 222888%%% 333888%%%
Water Stewardship
Environmental
Compliance and
Product Stewardship 666444%%% 777222%%% 666222%%%
Corporate Governance
VVViriigrrgginiinn RRReeecccyyyccclelleeddd Photo credit: The Nature Conservancy
ESG Performance
Data Table
Appendix
49 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from Sustainable Forestry in Brazil
Our CEO
WestRock owns forestland only in Brazil, through our
About WestRock approximately 135,000-acre (54,432 hectare) land base in
the states of Santa Catarina and Paraná. The forestland we
Sustainability own in Brazil is certified to the FSC® and CERFLOR forest
at WestRock certification standards. CERFLOR is recognized by the PEFC®.
About half (43%) of our land in Brazil is protected as
Supporting People
and Communities permanent preservation areas or maintained as native
forests in legal reserves, consistent with the requirements
of Brazilian forest law. Our planted forestlands (eucalyptus
Innovating for
and pinus trees) supply our paper mill in Três Barras and
Our Customers and
Their Customers are located more than 1,000 miles from the Amazon forest
region of northern Brazil. WestRock does not source any
virgin fiber from the Amazon forest region or from any
Bettering the Planet
other area of native forests in the country.
Climate
Emissions and Energy Our research over more than 60 years into the propagation DesEnvolve Prepares
and cultivation of eucalyptus and loblolly pine has
Waste, Recycling New Workers in Brazil
increased the productivity of our Brazilian forestlands,
and Circularity
enabling us to produce more fiber per hectare. We monitor
֡ Sustainable Forestry the fauna and flora of all our Brazilian forests closely and WestRock Brazil’s DesEnvolve program
and Biodiversity have identified the presence of a wide variety of animal offers a path to employment for people in our
Water Stewardship and plant species, including 41 at-risk species. communities. The program partners with local
educational institutions to offer professional
Environmental Our forestry lands also have an important role in water
and technical courses in the forestry, paper
Compliance and conservation. We protect and preserve more than 2,700
and corrugated packaging areas. In our Três
Product Stewardship water springs, and we promote the protection and
Barras/SC location, 69 people from local
preservation of our reserves with a comprehensive forest
communities were trained by the DesEnvolve
Corporate Governance management plan. The plan details the activities to be
program, with professional courses in Forestry
carried out for our forests, including annual fauna and
Machines, Pulp and Paper Manufacturing
ESG Performance flora surveys, water availability, as well as environmental
Process, Industrial Effluent Treatment and
Data Table monitoring of water resources and soil conservation.
Indivisible Cargo Transport. 88% of these students have diverse backgrounds (women, people of color and LGBTQ+),
and 10% of new hires at the paper mill and forestry business during fiscal year 2022 came from this pool of trained
We partner with landowners, providing seeds or seedlings
Appendix students. Today DesEnvolve is building on that success — expanding to units including Porto Feliz/SP, where two
for their plantations. WestRock Brazil helps educate
classes are already running in 2023.
these landowners on sustainable forestry practices and
supports them in receiving sustainability certification, and
we ask our partner landholders to prove they are following
appropriate sustainable procedures and practices.
50 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from Water Stewardship
2023 Target: Progress Update 2030 Target: Progress Update
Our CEO
Water Stewardship Education Enhance Water Management
The papermaking process is water-intensive and requires
About WestRock
access to a consistent supply of clean water. To advance
On track to launch global employee Reduced water intake by
our sustainability commitments and meet environmental
Sustainability
compliance requirements, we are focused on making sure education campaign on water 1%from FY19 baseline.
at WestRock
the water we use is suitable to return to the environment.
responsibility by FY23.
Supporting People
Responsible Water Use
and Communities
The water we draw from the environment is recycled
Innovating for Total Mill Biological Oxygen Demand (BOD) Discharged (1,000 Lbs)
several times within our mills. It is then treated and
Our Customers and
returned to the environment lost to evaporation, or
Their Customers
imparted to our final products. Some of our mills buy
Bettering the Planet water from third parties. FY19 22,139
Climate In many cases, our mills receive permits from state and
local governmental authorities allowing the withdrawal of FY2014 20,361
Emissions and Energy
water from the environment. These permits often specify
Waste, Recycling
the amount we can withdraw. Acquiring a permit typically FY21 21,532
and Circularity
involves modeling that evaluates the environmental
Sustainable Forestry impacts of our permitted withdrawals. FY22 22,122
and Biodiversity
֡ Water Stewardship
0 5,000 10,000 15,000 20,000 25,000
Water Reduction Efforts
Environmental
Compliance and
We have mapped and evaluated water risks at each of our
Product Stewardship
pulp and paper mills using the World Resource Institute’s Total Mill Suspended Solids (TSS) Discharged (1,000 Lbs)
Aqueduct tool, and we are the water management systems
Corporate Governance
at all mills. Additionally, WestRock has water-reduction
plans in place for facilities located in strategic watersheds.
ESG Performance FY19 28,440
For example, our Morai, India, recycled mill, located in
Data Table
Gujarat state, uses a closed-loop water system that
continually recirculates water. FY2014 27,063
Appendix
We plan to continue to look for alternative sources of water, FY21 29,794
investigate options for increasing water recycling and
efficiency, and use a risk-based approach to managing the FY22 32,550
amount of water we use in strategic locations.
0 5, 000 10,000 15,000 20,000 25,000 30,000 35,000
14 From FY20 onward, our BOD and TSS data includes discharges from all global consumer and corrugated mills. Data for years
51 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report prior to FY20 does not include discharges from some of our smaller recycled mills in the U.S. or our paper mills in Brazil or India.
Mill Water Use – Withdrawal & Effluent (Megaliters)
A Message from
Our CEO
600,000
About WestRock 573,027 588,952 581,276 567,258
500,000 521,228 533,755
Sustainability 505,139 504,311
at WestRock
400,000
Supporting People
Withdrawal
and Communities
300,000
Effluent
Innovating for
Our Customers and 200,000
Their Customers
100,000
Bettering the Planet
Climate
0
Emissions and Energy FY19 FY20 FY21 FY22
Waste, Recycling
and Circularity
Sustainable Forestry
Mill Water Withdrawal Intensity (Megaliters/Tons of Production) FY22 Sources of Mill Water
and Biodiversity
Sources of Mill Water
֡ Water Stewardship
0.05
Environmental
Compliance and 20%
Product Stewardship
0.04
0.0407
0.0393 0.0393
Corporate Governance 0.0383
0.03
ESG Performance
Data Table
59%
0.02
21%
Appendix
0.01
Surface Groundwater Third-party
0.00
FY19 FY20 FY21 FY22
52 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from Environmental Compliance and Product Stewardship
Our CEO
About WestRock Compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations is foundational to our commitments to sustainability and is
crucial to our operations and our stakeholders. No material environmental enforcement actions were commenced against
WestRock during fiscal year 2022.
Sustainability
at WestRock
To learn more about our dedication to environmental and product stewardship, see our Environmental Policy.
Supporting People
and Communities Product Stewardship
Innovating for The safety of the packaging we supply to our customers and Ongoing assessments of our products’ life cycle impacts are a
Our Customers and their customers is paramount — our business depends on regular part of our product stewardship review and innovation We conducted
Their Customers it. All of our containerboard mills are registered to ISO 9001. processes. We continually evaluate the impacts our materials
More than 80 of our converting facilities are third-party can have over their life cycles in an effort to design for a more 174 Product Life
Bettering the Planet certified to Safe Quality Food (SQF), British Retail Consortium circular economy and sustainable future.
(BRC) or other recognized food safety and hygiene standards.
Climate We have developed a new Life Cycle Assessments (LCA) Cycle Assessments
Emissions and Energy We work with our suppliers to acquire raw materials tool to enhance our capability to model substrate impacts
that comply with a broad range of U.S. and international between current and newly designed products. This tool
Waste, Recycling (LCAs)
regulations. For materials with the potential to end up in our was created in partnership with Sustainable Solutions LLC
and Circularity
final products, suppliers must provide us with certification following ISO 14040 and 14044’s methodology framework for
Sustainable Forestry
to prove their products meet our standards. We also seek to completing an LCA and was third-party reviewed by Industrial in fiscal year 2022.
and Biodiversity
ensure final products are consistently produced to applicable Ecology Consultants.
Water Stewardship quality standards.
֡ Environmental
Our final product testing protocol includes verifying the
Compliance and
effectiveness of our manufacturing practices and operating
Product Stewardship
procedures to ensure that final products meet requirements
for their intended use. For example, we test our products for a
Corporate Governance
range of chemical and microbiological constituents to ensure
they meet applicable regulatory requirements as well as
ESG Performance
customer expectations.
Data Table
Appendix
53 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
Corporate
Governance
We are guided by fundamental
principles that shape how we conduct
our operations. These core values
include integrity, respect, accountability
and excellence.
54 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from
Corporate
Our CEO
About WestRock
Governance
Sustainability
at WestRock
Supporting People
and Communities
Innovating for
Identifying Risks
Our Customers and
Their Customers and Acting Ethically
Bettering the Planet
We know that we cannot avoid risk; in fact, taking well-
considered risks is essential to our success. But we need
Corporate Governance
to identify, understand, manage and mitigate risk. This
֡ Identifying Risks
approach has led us to utilize a governance structure
and Acting Ethically
that can identify and react to risks to our business and to
Ensuring a Stable, develop a culture that promotes ethical behavior — one
Sustainable Supply based on our values of integrity, respect, accountability
Governance and and excellence.
our everyday decisions. Among other things, these Values, Ethics and Conduct
Leadership
Everyone at WestRock has a role to play when it comes to policies govern compensation, anti-corruption practices,
maintaining our reputation and managing risk. Our board political activities, competitive practices, protection of
ESG Performance Our core values are the basis for how we interact with
receives regular compliance and risk updates; our senior, human rights and participation in trade associations.
Data Table customers, colleagues, investors, suppliers and the
functional and operational leaders work to identify and Compliance governance is further supported by regional
communities where we live and work and sell our products.
disclose risks; and every team member is familiar with our compliance committees that help to ensure effective local
Appendix
values and the code of conduct. Our approach to corporate communication of expectations and to identify and address
Policy Commitments
governance prioritizes ethics, integrity and compliance unique compliance risks.
with laws and regulations across our organization. Our
As part of our formal Enterprise Risk Management process, The WestRock Code of Conduct and Anti-Bribery Policy are
human rights policies prohibit discrimination, harassment
we conduct annual interviews with senior executives the primary means of communicating our expectations for
and bullying. We do not tolerate human trafficking or
and a broad cross-section of WestRock’s functional and employee conduct.
slavery at WestRock or anywhere in our supply chain.
operational leaders to identify areas of material risk to the
Governance starts with our board oversight, management enterprise, including compliance risks, and seek feedback The code of conduct strengthens the alignment of our
leadership and commitment to our values. Our code on the effectiveness of applicable controls. The results of compliance and ethics policies with our dynamic and
of conduct sets out our common principles, which are this risk assessment are shared with our board of directors growing global business. Failure to follow the company’s
supported by robust compliance policies that guide and used for internal audit planning purposes. compliance policies and the code may result in discipline,
including termination.
55 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from All salaried employees are required to complete annual audiences with reminders about the importance of officials. Employees and agents are required to decline
Our CEO training on the code, including comprehension testing, to WestRock’s anti-corruption controls. These employees also any demand for bribes and work diligently to remedy
affirm their commitment to the code and to certify that all receive training related to anti-corruption matters. any claimed defect that might be an impediment to
About WestRock potential code violations or concerns have been appropriately a government process or approval until the matter is
Each year, our board of directors reviews the WestRock
reported. Employees who operate in areas with higher risk favorably resolved. No public legal cases regarding
Code of Conduct. Board members have received anti-
Sustainability of bribery and corruption — about 25% of our total salaried corruption have been brought against the organization or
corruption training delivered by an external, national
at WestRock work force — receive annual live or electronic anti-bribery its employees.
expert in the subject. The CCO’s reports to the Audit
trainings. Code highlights are distributed to front-line team
Committee include periodic assessments of global
Supporting People members annually, and training is required at least every Competition
corruption risks and the controls in place to manage those
and Communities three years.
risks. The Audit Committee is also briefed on specific
WestRock maintains a rigorous program of global
incidents, as appropriate. As a part of our due diligence
Innovating for compliance with competition laws. The program includes:
procedures, we require at-risk vendors to either have
Our Customers and
their own anti-corruption policies and training or agree to ֡ Firm and visible leadership commitment to compliance.
Their Customers
WestRock third-party anti-corruption policies and receive
֡ Strong policies tailored to our business, including
training provided by WestRock.
Bettering the Planet requiring written reports of inappropriate contacts
In addition to our WestRock Code of Conduct and with competitors and restrictions on technical visits to
Corporate Governance Anti-Bribery Policy (and supplemental anti-corruption competitor operations.
֡ Identifying Risks policies) for employees, we have WestRock Principles of ֡ Mandatory electronic or live compliance training every
and Acting Ethically Conduct for our suppliers. This document spells out 16 12 to 18 months.
requirements for suppliers, including compliance with
Ensuring a Stable, ֡ Quarterly antitrust memos on various industry- and
applicable laws and regulations in the countries where they
Sustainable Supply business-specific topics that provide guidance
do business, and a prohibition on forced labor or child labor.
regarding our policies and practices.
Governance and
Leadership Reporting Concerns ֡ Close monitoring of antitrust controls at trade
The code, related compliance policies, training and support
associations, including withdrawal when our standards
materials are available to all team members in multiple
ESG Performance languages on the WestRock intranet. WestRock team Team members who have ethics concerns or want to report are not met.
Data Table members are also provided copies at hire and, where a possible violation can contact the WestRock Compliance ֡ Periodic risk assessments of businesses in global
appropriate, with their annual training. Line anonymously by mail, web reporting, email or phone geographies, which have included a program audit
Appendix 24 hours a day, seven days a week. The Compliance Line by an international accounting firm and Asia Pacific,
We also make the code accessible to external stakeholders, includes a reporting channel to the Audit Committee to South American and EU site audits by the chief
including third-party partners and the public. The code of raise specific financial concerns. Contact information for compliance officer.
conduct, along with other key policies and certifications, can the compliance line is posted at each facility, and native-
֡ Risk-based email monitoring program, with a sampling
be found on the company’s website under Sustainability, and language speakers are available to assist non-English
methodology focused on criteria that indicate antitrust/
under Governance in the Investor Relations section. speakers. WestRock takes all reports of violations seriously,
competition compliance exposure.
and each is investigated and resolved appropriately.
Governance of Ethics and Conduct ֡ Ongoing monitoring, advice and review by expert
Commitment to Acting Ethically antitrust counsel in the legal department.
WestRock’s chief compliance officer (CCO) periodically
distributes news about global corruption enforcement From time to time, WestRock or its agents encounter
actions to compliance committee members and targeted demands or apparent demands for bribes from public
56 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from At times, WestRock is a defendant in lawsuits arising out Human Rights Reviews and
Our CEO of the conduct of our business, some of which may involve
Impact Assessments
allegations of anticompetitive behavior. There were no
About WestRock such claims, decisions or judgments in the year ending
September 30, 2022. In fiscal year 2022, we conducted a global human rights
risk assessment encompassing all of our core business
Sustainability
operating facilities. We employed three global human rights
at WestRock
Human Rights frameworks to assess risk: the Human Freedom Index, the
Heritage Index and Freedom in the World Index. Of the 306
Supporting People
locations reviewed, 19 ranked as potentially high-risk.
and Communities WestRock’s values provide a foundation for our approach
to human rights. We are committed to respect for all people
Human Rights Policy and
Innovating for and promote discrimination-, harassment- and bullying-
Our Customers and free workplaces. We expect our suppliers to share the Procedures Training
Their Customers same commitment and to meet our ethical standards.
In fiscal year 2022, we trained 22,037 associates on our code
WestRock does not tolerate human trafficking in the U.S.
Bettering the Planet of conduct and global Mutual Respect in the Workplace Policy.
or globally. We support the elimination of human trafficking
This represents 10,018 hours of training and approximately
and slavery from our supply chain. The transparency of
Corporate Governance 44% of our global population of team members.
our efforts is consistent with the California Transparency
֡ Identifying Risks
in Supply Chains Act of 2010 and the United Kingdom’s
and Acting Ethically
Modern Slavery Act of 2015.
Ensuring a Stable,
WestRock expressly prohibits the use of forced labor,
Sustainable Supply
including indentured labor, slave labor and any form of
Governance and
human trafficking. Further, our global Mutual Respect in the
Leadership
Workplace Policy prohibits forced and child labor and human
trafficking. Our team members are responsible for complying
ESG Performance
with our internal controls that seek to combat human
Data Table
trafficking and forced labor. Anyone found to be in violation
of these policies is subject to discipline, up to and including
Appendix
termination. We actively and regularly conduct internal and
supply chain audits to uncover potential risks and quickly and
effectively mitigate them.
57 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from Ensuring a Stable,
Our CEO
Sustainable Supply Chain
About WestRock
Maintaining a sound, stable supply base is vital to our
Sustainability
success. We work with approximately 43,000 suppliers
at WestRock
across the world, purchasing approximately $19.2
billion annually in fiber, chemicals, energy, services and
Supporting People equipment. We are focused on increasing our spend with
and Communities
diverse-owned suppliers, with a goal to spend a combined
$975 million annually with Tier 1 and Tier 2 suppliers. We
Innovating for exceeded that goal in fiscal year 2022, spending more than
Our Customers and $1 billion with small and diverse-owned suppliers. Read
Their Customers
more about our supplier diversity efforts in Supporting
People and Communities.
Bettering the Planet
We require our suppliers to adhere to high standards of
Corporate Governance business conduct, labor rights, environmental compliance,
quality and service, and to comply with applicable laws,
Identifying Risks
legal requirements and regulations of the countries
and Acting Ethically
where they do business. Our corporate procurement
֡ Ensuring a Stable, team works closely with our sustainability team to make
Sustainable Supply sure our procurement practices align with WestRock’s
Governance and sustainability goals.
Leadership
The WestRock Principles of Conduct lay out our
global sourcing guidelines. This document provides a
ESG Performance
comprehensive set of standards for suppliers and serves
Data Table
as the foundation of our supplier approval process. Our Supply Chain
Every 12 to 24 months we seek confirmation from our
Appendix
key suppliers that they have read and understood the
WestRock Principles of Conduct. 43,000
Equipment
Suppliers
Chemicals Services
Key
$19.2B Fiber Supplies Energy
Annual spend
58 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from Key Items in the Supply Chain Total Spend by Supplier Family
Our CEO
1%
Our supply chain provides us with a wide variety of raw
About WestRock
materials, services and equipment beyond fiber. They include:
5%
Sustainability ֡ Energy. As noted in Bettering the Planet, our virgin
5%
at WestRock containerboard and paperboard mills employ a variety
22%
of fuels to balance energy needs, process reliability 5%
Supporting People and environmental objectives. Our largest mills self-
and Communities generate most of the steam needed for their operations
5%
using renewable biomass and produce their own
Innovating for electricity using highly efficient combined heat and
$19.2B
Our Customers and power (CHP) systems. Our recycled paperboard mills
Their Customers purchase electricity and power their manufacturing 6%
processes by making their own steam using natural
Bettering the Planet gas-fired boilers, which may use fuel oil during periods 12% Total Spend
in which gas supply is curtailed or interrupted. Our
6%
converting operations purchase electricity and self-
Corporate Governance
generate steam primarily with natural gas.
Identifying Risks
and Acting Ethically ֡ Chemicals. We use a variety of chemicals across our
10%
mill and corrugating operations, and we consume 11%
֡ Ensuring a Stable,
materials such as caustic soda and corn starch in large
Sustainable Supply
volumes. We qualify a range of formulated products 11%
Governance and with multiple suppliers to ensure options are available
Leadership during times of restricted capacity.
֡ Transportation. Our supply chain employs multiple
ESG Performance
Data Table modes of transportation, including truck, rail, Information Technology $0.18B Manufacturing Support Services $1.19B
intermodal and ocean. The principal markets for our
products are in North America, South America, Europe, Equipment $0.89B Unallocated $1.93B
Appendix
Asia and Australia. Board $0.99B Logistics & Freight $2.10B
To read more about our approach to sourcing virgin and Administrative Services & Supplies $1.02B Fiber & Recycling $2.19B
recycled fiber, our primary source materials, see page 48.
Energy $1.02B Supplies $2.38B
Chemicals $1.16B Non-sourceable Spend $4.16B
59 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from Governance and Leadership Board of Directors
Our CEO
WestRock believes good corporate governance supports
About WestRock
long-term value creation, and our corporate governance
framework supports independent oversight and
Sustainability
accountability. Eleven members of our 12-member board
at WestRock
of directors are independent, and the board is led by an
independent chair with clearly delineated responsibilities.
Supporting People Colleen F. Arnold Timothy J. Bernlohr J. Powell Brown Terrell K. Crews Russell M. Currey Suzan F. Harrison
Our directors are elected on an annual basis (with majority
and Communities
voting in uncontested elections), participate in annual board
and committee self-evaluations and are subject to robust
Innovating for
stock ownership guidelines and an over-boarding policy.
Our Customers and
Their Customers
To ensure the board of directors continues evolving in a
manner that serves our changing business and strategic
Bettering the Planet needs, the Governance Committee evaluates whether
Gracia C. Martore James E. Nevels E. Jean Savage David B. Sewell Alan D. Wilson Dmitri L. Stockton
incumbent directors collectively possess the requisite
Corporate Governance skills and perspective before recommending a slate of
Identifying Risks incumbent directors for renomination.
include qualified female and racially or ethnically diverse In addition, many women and racially and/or ethnically
and Acting Ethically
The board of directors is composed of experienced candidates on the initial lists of candidates from which new diverse individuals serve on our management team, including
Ensuring a Stable, members who are diverse with respect to background, management-supported director nominees recruited from our general counsel and secretary, our chief environmental
Sustainable Supply skills, experiences, gender, race and ethnicity, which outside the company are chosen by the board. At the end officer and our senior vice president of strategy and
֡ Governance and facilitates the effective oversight of our strategy of fiscal year 2022, the board of directors included four sustainability. Women also hold the senior executive roles of
Leadership and management. The board is committed to having directors who are women, two directors who are racially chief human resources officer, chief communications officer
a membership that reflects diversity. In fiscal year diverse and two directors who have served in the military. We and chief accounting officer, while racially and/or ethnically
ESG Performance 2020, the board of directors adopted the WestRock are proud that four of the last five directors to join the board diverse leaders hold the roles of chief Information and digital
Data Table Company Diversity Search Policy, pursuant to which we of directors reflect diversity on the basis of gender or race. officer and chief information security officer.
Appendix
Board Refreshment GlobalBusinessExperience PublicCompanyBoardExperience ManufacturingExperience ConsumerPackaged GoodsExperience
10 11 8 5
and Diversity
EnterpriseRisk
M&AExperience CapitalAllocationExperience SustainabilityExperience ManagementExperience
The Board is composed of experienced 11 11 6 9
members who are diverse with respect
InnovationExperience
to background, skills, experiences, FinancialExpertise Paper&PackagingExperience 5 ExperiencewithScale
9 6
gender, race and ethnicity, which 4
facilitates the effective oversight of
PublicCompanyCEOExperience
our strategy and management.
5
60 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from
Our CEO
About WestRock
Executive Compensation
Sustainability Our executive compensation policies and programs are a
at WestRock
strategic tool designed to drive stockholder value creation
by attracting, retaining and motivating superior talent
Supporting People Sustainability Management WestRock’s senior vice president of strategy and committed to the successful execution of our business
sustainability is responsible for providing guidance and
and Communities and Oversight strategy. We believe our short-term and long-term
insights on the company’s sustainability strategy and
incentive programs for leaders and other employees
working with other executives to drive implementation
Innovating for are appropriately balanced, reinforcing both near and
Our Customers and Sustainability is a top priority, and our ability to embed it of new sustainability goals throughout the organization. longer-term results, while also encouraging prudent
Their Customers throughout all aspects of our organization hinges on sound Establishment of this reporting structure was a strategic decision-making, effective risk management and
governance and oversight. decision to link sustainability with strategy.
consideration of market practices.
Bettering the Planet
The board oversees the development and execution of our WestRock also has a vice president of sustainability, who
Our stockholders are asked to provide an annual advisory
sustainability strategy and reporting. The charter of the manages the day-to-day implementation of our global
vote on executive compensation and in fiscal year 2022,
Corporate Governance Governance Committee provides that one of its primary sustainability program. Among other activities, our vice
approximately 88% of the votes cast by our stockholders
Identifying Risks duties is to oversee policies, strategies and programs president, sustainability, regularly meets with customers to
approved this proposal in support of our executive
and Acting Ethically related to ESG matters, including sustainability. During learn about their sustainability challenges. He also oversees
compensation program.
fiscal year 2022, the Governance Committee determined product Life Cycle Assessment work to support our efforts
Ensuring a Stable,
Sustainable Supply to increase the cadence of its meetings to four times per to provide sustainable packaging solutions and participates For additional information on our governance structure, our
year beginning in fiscal 2023, which is expected to, among in global sustainability forums to advance WestRock’s board of directors and executive compensation matters,
֡ Governance and
other things, expand the frequency with which ESG and position as a thought leader in this important area. please refer to our 2023 Proxy Statement.
Leadership
sustainability topics are discussed with the Governance
In addition to our sustainability executives, WestRock has
Committee. In addition, the Governance Committee has
ESG Performance established a Sustainability Council of functional leaders
identified sustainability experience as one of the important Annual Target: Progress Update
Data Table from across the enterprise to facilitate ongoing refinement
areas of experience for our directors to possess collectively
and execution of our sustainability strategy through
in light of our business strategy.
Appendix guidance and the distribution of resources across business
In addition to board-level oversight, we augmented our segments. Additionally, cross-functional working groups Expanding Diversity Modifier In Incentive Plan
management-level oversight of sustainability matters and regional teams within the organization provide input
The short-term incentive plan
during fiscal year 2022. Our executive leadership team is on our sustainability strategy, develop plans to achieve the
responsible for establishing our sustainability strategy, company’s sustainability targets, and ensure our work on (STIP) for FY22 assigned to the
including with respect to climate-related issues. In our sustainability priorities is aligned with and embedded
fiscal year 2022, we hired a new senior vice president of into our operations. These teams include representatives top 100 leaders contained a
strategy and sustainability, who reports to our president from our product stewardship, environmental, innovation,
of global paper. Our president of global paper reports engineering, manufacturing, finance, legal and diversity modifier of +/-5%.
directly to our CEO and is a member of WestRock’s communication groups.
executive leadership team.
61 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from Participation in Trade Associations
Our CEO
WestRock is a member of several trade associations, The Center for Political Accountability (CPA), a nonprofit,
About WestRock
coalitions and other organizations that provide leadership, nonpartisan organization working to bring transparency
resources and assistance on public policy issues pertinent and accountability to corporate political spending scored
Sustainability
to our business. Our membership in these organizations WestRock 97.1% in its fiscal year 2022 CPA-Zicklin Index
at WestRock
is intended to support initiatives where we believe of Corporate Political Disclosure and Accountability. This
engaging with other industry participants is beneficial to record score earned WestRock “Trendsetter” status for a
Supporting People
our business and compliant with our antitrust policies. third year in a row, a designation defined as setting model
and Communities
We value the diversity of opinions found within these corporate governance best practices for operating in an
groups and sometimes take positions contrary to those incendiary political era. With this edition, the CPA-Zicklin
Innovating for
of these organizations. The company makes payments to Index breaks new ground. From its annual benchmarking of
Our Customers and
these organizations, including paying membership fees election-related spending transparency and accountability
Their Customers
and dues. On a semiannual basis, we track the portion of by companies belonging to the S&P 500, the 2022
the company’s payments to trade associations that were Index expands to rating companies belonging to a stock
Bettering the Planet
used relevant to the paper and packaging industry. We market index twice the size, the Russell 1000. For Russell
engage with stakeholders who impact, or are impacted 1000 companies that do not belong to the S&P 500, the
Corporate Governance
by, all aspects of our business: financial, commercial and average score for political disclosure and accountability
Identifying Risks operational. Ongoing communication with our stakeholders is 12.8%. This compares to an average score of 57% for all
and Acting Ethically — including stakeholder meetings, customer satisfaction companies in the S&P 500.
surveys, employee engagement surveys, sales contacts,
Ensuring a Stable,
To explore our political contributions over the past three
meetings, conferences and social media — on a wide
Sustainable Supply
years, see our Performance Data Table.
variety of issues enables us to remain engaged in key areas
֡ Governance and
of interest for all parties.
Leadership
Political Contributions
ESG Performance
Data Table
FY19 $1,531,737
Appendix
FY20 $1,247,737
FY21 $1,228,544
FY22 $947,637
0 350,000 700,000 1,050,000 1,400,000 1,750,000
62 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from
Data Measurement
Our CEO
About WestRock
Sustainability
at WestRock WestRock data included in this report was gathered by annual certificate creation of unbundled renewable energy All data has been reviewed and validated by WestRock’s
facility personnel, financial services teams, human resources attributes by calculating emissions associated with the null internal audit team. For this 2022 Sustainability Report, we
Supporting People and other subject matter experts. In most cases, the data power generated and consumed in our operations as if it engaged Ernst & Young LLP to provide independent external
and Communities in this report has been extracted from corporate data was purchased from the grid. Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG review-level assurance on the following FY22 indicators:
management systems. Portions of the data come directly emissions are reported as COe and include CO, NO and
2 2 2
Innovating for from subject-matter experts, and fiber and recycling data CH . We use the following Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission ֡ Recordable incident rate
4
Our Customers and directly from weight tickets using scales at our operating factors for our inventory: ֡ Diversity of governance bodies and employees
Their Customers facilities. Calculation methods have been established using
֡ World Resources Institute (2015) – Greenhouse Gas (GHG) ֡ New employee hires and employee turnover
a combination of international, governmental, industry and
Bettering the Planet company standards or protocols. GHG data is calculated Protocol tool for stationary combustion. Version 4.1. ֡ Materials used by weight for virgin fiber
using the World Resources Institute (WRI) GHG Protocol and ֡ 2021 US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) ֡ Recycled input materials used
Corporate Governance includes combustion sources only. Scope 1 fugitive methane Emission Factors for Greenhouse Gas Inventories15
֡ Water withdrawal by source for mills
emissions from company-owned landfills are not included in
֡ 2014 IPCC Fifth Assessment Report
ESG Performance our Scope 1 emissions inventory. Currently, we have chosen ֡ Water intensity
Data Table to exclude these emissions from our inventory as we believe ֡ The Emissions & Generation Resource Integrated
֡ Facilities located in a high-risk country of operation
default emission factors in existing U.S. EPA calculation Database (eGRID) 2020
֡ Scope 1 and Scope 2 market-based method
Appendix methodologies (and other publicly available estimation ֡ 2022 Edison Electric Institute (EEI) Electric Company
GHG emissions
methodologies) may not be representative of actual Carbon Emissions and Electricity Mix Reporting
emissions and in some cases overstate the significance of Database for Corporate Customers ֡ Biogenic carbon emissions
fugitive methane emissions from pulp and paper industry
֡ 2020 National Inventory Report 1990–2017: Greenhouse ֡ GHG emissions intensity
landfills. Therefore, excluding fugitive methane emissions
Gas Sources and Sinks in Canada
from company-owned landfills in our reporting boundary is ֡ Energy consumption
consistent with The GHG Protocol: A Corporate Accounting ֡ 2022 factors, International Energy Agency Data Services ֡ Purchased energy intensity
and Reporting Standard. We are working with industry
֡ 2021 Data Year RE-DISS Residual Mix Emissions Rates
partners to better understand methane landfill emissions,
for Europe
and will evaluate including these fugitive emissions in future Our SBT for GHG emissions reductions has been developed
֡ 2021 UK Government GHG Conversion Factors for
inventories. We calculate our location-based Scope 2 GHG in conformance with SBTi Criteria and Recommendations
Company Reporting
emissions by multiplying purchased electricity and steam (version 4.2), and our Scope 1 and 2 target and Scope 3
by source-specific emissions factors. We do not account ֡ 2022 Australian Government Department of Industry, target have undergone SBTi’s validation process. Our SBT
for the sale of renewable energy attributes in the form of Science, Energy and Resources National Greenhouse is aligned with a well below 2 degrees Celsius ambition
unbundled renewable energy certificates (RECs) under Accounts Factors using the absolute contraction approach. Our Scope 1 and
the location-based method. Our location-based Scope 2 ֡ Brazil Ministry of Mines and Energy Summary Report 2 target includes biogenic emissions and removals from
GHG emissions differ from our market-based Scope 2 GHG 2021 (Reference year 2020) bioenergy feedstocks; however, biogenic CO 2 emissions
emissions because our market-based emissions account for are considered carbon neutral.
֡ Netherlands Powerhouse Utility-specific Factor 2021
15 40 CFR Part 98 GHG Emission Factors - US EPA
63 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from Environmental Indicators Social Indicators
Our CEO
About WestRock Our boundary for environmental indicators is WestRock’s Our boundary for social indicators is WestRock’s total
global manufacturing operations as of September 30, employee population unless otherwise indicated. All social
Sustainability 2022, except where otherwise indicated. For all water indicators for fiscal year 2022 data include acquisitions
at WestRock indicators, waste data and SO 2 and NO X, our boundary is completed through the end of fiscal year 2022. WestRock
WestRock’s mills (noted in charts or text) instead of our elected to assess human rights risk based on three indices
global manufacturing operations, since these facilities — the 2020 Human Freedom Index (Human Freedom
Supporting People
and Communities account for over 90% of the company’s water intake. score), the 2022 Heritage Risk Index and the 2022 Freedom
The information provided for our total direct energy in the World Index. These indices rate a country’s human
use, purchased electricity and Scope 1 and Scope 2 rights risk using political, economic and social criteria. For
Innovating for
greenhouse gas emissions covers 100% of our global each index, WestRock used the most recently available
Our Customers and
Their Customers manufacturing operations. All indicators measured using data at the time of the company’s assessment and a
the metric system will be stated as “tonnes.” All indicators quartile rating system to rescore each country on a scale
that reference “tons” are measured as U.S. short tons. All of 1 to 4. Scores were then aggregated for each country
Bettering the Planet
waste-related and fiber tons are dry tons except for the across the three indices, with possible scores ranging from
Virgin Wood Fiber Procured chart, which is measured in 3–12, with 3 being lowest risk and 12 being highest risk.
Corporate Governance
green tons. This allowed the company to create an operation-specific
human rights risk assessment by country. For WestRock’s
ESG Performance The environmental indicators for fiscal year 2022 data
risk assessment, the company determined a combined
Data Table include all acquisitions since 2015, including Multi
rating of 6 or higher would be considered a high-risk
Packaging Solutions and KapStone Paper and Packaging
country of operation. This included countries that had a
Appendix Corporation. These acquisitions have also been added
rating in the 4th quartile (highest risk) in one index or were
to our baseline year of 2019, and all subsequent years, to
rated in the 2nd quartile for all 3 indices.
accurately track progress on our goals and provide up-
to-date information to our stakeholders. All divestitures
are removed from our baseline and all subsequent years.
Our acquisition of Grupo Gondi was finalized at the end of
calendar year 2022 and as such falls outside of our fiscal
year for 2022. We will include their data in next year’s
sustainability report, and restate all environmental metrics.
64 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from ESG Performance Data Table
Our CEO
About WestRock
Recycling and Fiber Sourcing
Sustainability
FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 FY21 FY22
at WestRock
Production (Tons)
Supporting People Total Production 16,112,767 15,555,755 15,659,202 15,811,055 14,946,432 14,463,318 14,776,992 14,437,610
and Communities Virgin Wood Fiber Procured (Tons)
United States 29,590,403 29,345,629 28,097,947 28,805,432 35,655,428 33,653,982 33,138,126 32,049,650
Innovating for
Canada 1,503,383 1,638,133 1,816,973 1,844,067 1,731,436 1,698,738 1,514,685 1,452,513
Our Customers and
Their Customers Brazil 1,780,388 1,844,544 1,798,791 1,856,114 1,858,118 1,679,540 1,852,823 2,686,545
Total 32,874,174 32,828,306 31,713,711 32,505,613 39,244,982 37,032,260 36,505,634 36,188,708
Bettering the Planet
Fiber Sourced (Tons) Virgin Recycled Virgin Recycled
All 63% 37% 64% 36%
Corporate Governance
Consumer Mills 75% 25% 72% 28%
ESG Performance Corrugated Mills 60% 40% 62% 38%
Data Table Recycled Fiber Used (Tons)
North American Recycled Tons Used by WestRock 4,300,000 4,900,000 4,700,000 4,900,000 5,400,000 5,300,000 5,600,000 5,500,000
Appendix
Percentage of Total Recycled Fiber Tons Managed 64% 64% 62% 64% 67% 71% 77% 79%
Tons of Recovered Fiber Managed
Recovered Fiber Used by WestRock 4,300,000 4,900,000 4,700,000 4,900,000 5,400,000 5,300,000 5,600,000 5,500,000
Sold Externally 2,440,000 2,700,000 2,850,000 2,755,000 2,670,000 2,130,000 1,680,000 1,470,000
Percentage of Total Fiber Tons Managed 64% 64% 62% 64% 67% 71% 77% 79%
Tons of Recyclables Managed
Fiber 6,740,000 7,600,000 7,550,000 7,655,000 8,102,000 7,444,000 7,294,000 6,988,000
Plastic 130,000 150,000 120,000 155,000 59,000 52,500 41,800 38,000
Aluminum 30,000 50,000 30,000 20,000 7,600 3,600 3,800 3,700
Other Non-fiber - - - - 37,100 34,000 63,600 61,000
Total 6,900,000 7,800,000 7,700,000 7,830,000 8,206,300 7,534,100 7,403,200 7,090,700
65 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from ESG Performance Data Table
Our CEO
About WestRock
Energy
Sustainability
FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 FY21 FY22
at WestRock
Energy Used
Supporting People Total Renewable Energy Used (MMBTU) 214,783,407 214,689,256 216,538,006 220,402,931 212,696,778 203,841,297 196,057,872 187,419,390
and Communities
Total Non-Renewable Used (MMBTU) 104,859,878 104,902,785 100,360,647 104,670,395 105,100,783 105,808,498 116,427,886 113,752,891
Total Direct Energy Used (MMBTU) 319,643,285 319,592,041 316,898,654 325,073,326 317,797,561 309,649,795 312,485,758 301,172,281
Innovating for
Purchase Fuel Energy Efficiency (MMBTU/Ton) 12.37 12.30 11.93 12.26 12.70 12.79 12.71 12.72
Our Customers and
Their Customers Electricity, Steam & Heat Purchased (MMBTU) 29,085,551 28,093,249 27,719,072 27,805,754 25,856,853 24,787,214 26,161,639 25,936,798
Electricity, Steam & Heat Sold (MMBTU) (5,493,080) (5,780,488) (5,567,312) (5,414,087) (5,262,672) (5,321,135) (5,829,426) (5,423,529)
Bettering the Planet
Corporate Governance
Emissions
ESG Performance
FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 FY21 FY22
Data Table
GHG Emissions
Appendix Scope 1 - Direct Emissions (CO2e MT) 6,967,492 6,831,048 5,963,843 6,173,757 6,200,598 6,178,533 6,537,030 6,273,921
Scope 2 - Indirect Emissions - Location (CO2e MT) 3,110,046 2,737,506 2,602,897 2,621,233 2,319,369 2,172,374 2,087,017 1,885,216
Scope 2 - Indirect Emissions - Market (CO2e MT) 4,889,324 4,341,146 3,985,158 3,509,082 3,166,058 3,027,961 2,685,509 2,566,943
Total Emissions: Scope 1 and 2 Market-based (CO2e MT) 11,856,816 11,172,193 9,949,000 9,682,839 9,366,656 9,206,495 9,222,539 8,840,864
GHG Emissions Intensity (CO2e/Ton) 0.67 0.65 0.58 0.56 0.57 0.58 0.57 0.56
Biogenic Emissions (Tonnes CO) 20,284,779 20,367,751 20,427,967 20,953,565 20,103,191 19,391,374 19,004,726 18,444,649
2
Air Emissions16
NO (Tons) 24,632 24,428 23,779 23,745 23,018 23,744 24,400 24,868
X
SO (Tons) 16,869 13,452 11,519 10,596 9,544 9,184 11,027 9,936
2
16 From FY20 onward, our NO and SO data includes emissions from all global consumer and corrugated mills. Prior years
x 2
reported do not include this data for some of our smaller recycled mills in the U.S. or our paper mills in Brazil or India.
66 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from ESG Performance Data Table
Our CEO
About WestRock
Water17
Sustainability
FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 FY21 FY22
at WestRock
Mill Water Use
Supporting People Withdrawal (Megaliters) 596,650 587,106 565,724 561,672 573,027 588,952 581,276 567,258
and Communities Effluents (Megaliters) 525,964 517,551 498,701 495,130 505,139 521,228 533,755 504,311
Water Consumption (Megaliters) 70,686 69,556 67,022 66,542 67,888 67,724 58,913 62,947
Innovating for
Withdrawal intensity (Megaliters/Ton) 0.037 0.038 0.036 0.036 0.038 0.041 0.039 0.039
Our Customers and
Their Customers Sources of Mill Water - All Mills (Megaliters)
Surface 383,527 375,106 357,967 355,954 369,540 339,020 339,221 334,677
Bettering the Planet
Groundwater 133,986 143,470 132,515 129,798 130,019 126,115 123,092 120,491
Third-Party 79,136 68,530 75,241 75,920 73,467 123,817 118,963 112,090
Corporate Governance
Water Quality
ESG Performance Total BOD Discharged (1,000 lbs) 22,413 22,129 21,025 23,134 22,139 20,361 21,532 22,122
Data Table Total TSS Discharged (1,000 lbs) 30,451 30,463 29,233 29,986 28,440 27,063 29,794 32,550
Appendix
Waste
FY19 FY20 FY21 FY22
Mill Waste Generation (Tons)
Landfill 899,709 859,466 757,323 774,097
Waste-to-Energy 250,534 275,836 304,736 344,737
Beneficial Use 216,409 223,966 188,061 237,729
17 From FY 20 onward, our water-related data includes all global consumer and corrugated mills. Prior years reported
do not include this data for some of our smaller recycled mills in the U.S. or our paper mills in Brazil or India.
67 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from ESG Performance Data Table
Our CEO
About WestRock
Safety & Training
Sustainability
FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 FY21 FY22
at WestRock
Safety
Supporting People OSHA Rate (Recordable Injuries Per 100 Employees) 1.47 1.47 1.49 1.45 1.68 1.56 1.61 1.69
and Communities
LWD Rate (Number of LWD Per 100 Employees) 14.41 12.64 11.37 13.2 15.04 11.86 16.00 16.14
Life-Changing Events Total (Count) 24 14 4 2
Innovating for
+ Amputation 3 2
Our Customers and
Their Customers + Burn 0 0
+ Degloving 0 0
Bettering the Planet
+ Fractures 1 0
Training
Corporate Governance
Total Training Hours 347,459 335,505
ESG Performance Training Hours Per Employee 11 8
Data Table Training Spend (USD)
Total Training Spend $1,589,916 $2,294,881
Appendix
Training Spend Per Employee $48 $55
Political Contributions
FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 FY21 FY22
Political Contributions (USD) $1,071,483 $1,391,099 $979,518 $1,119,881 $1,531,737 $1,247,737 $1,228,544 $947,637
68 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from ESG Performance Data Table
Our CEO
About WestRock
Employees
Sustainability
FY21 FY22 FY21 FY22
at WestRock
New Hires All Employees
Supporting People
Total 12,470 15,055 Gender18 Men 38,732 38,477
and Communities
Gender18 Men 9,583 10,965 Women 10,525 11,059
Innovating for Women 2,887 4,090 Region North America 39,682 39,266
Our Customers and Region North America 11,503 13,618 Asia Pacific 1,499 1,251
Their Customers
Asia Pacific 63 71 EMEA 5,401 5,407
EMEA 341 517 Latin America 2,675 3,612
Bettering the Planet
Latin America 563 849 Age Group Under 30 7,236 7,335
Corporate Governance Age Group Under 30 4,709 5,599 30–50 24,298 22,951
30–50 6,041 7,103 Over 50 17,723 19,250
ESG Performance
Over 50 1,720 2,353 Employee Type Hourly 35,022 34,841
Data Table
Turnover Salaried 14,235 14,695
Appendix Total 11,753 14,935 People of Color (U.S. only) Non-POC 23,295 22,751
Gender18 Men 9,197 11,325 POC 11,975 12,717
Women 2,556 3,610 Unspecified 530 757
Region North America 10,483 13,145
Asia Pacific 175 308
EMEA 589 681
Latin America 506 801
Age Group Under 30 3,465 4,563
30–50 5,434 6,780
Over 50 2,854 3,592
Board of Directors
Gender18 Men 8 8
Women 4 4
18 Gender identification is based on self-identification.
69 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from materials, shipping, labor and capital equipment or operational improvements on announced timelines
Our CEO Appendix costs; reduced supply of raw materials, energy and or at all, including with respect to our business systems
transportation, including from supply chain disruptions transformation; risks related to our indebtedness; the
About WestRock and labor shortages; intense competition; results and scope, costs, timing and impact of any restructuring of our
impacts of acquisitions, including operational and operations and corporate and tax structure; our desire or
Sustainability Cautionary Statements financial effects from the acquisition of Grupo Gondi, and ability to repurchase company stock; the scope, timing and
at WestRock divestitures as well as risks related to our joint ventures; outcome of any litigation, claims or other proceedings or
business disruptions, including from public health crises dispute resolutions and the impact of any such litigation
Supporting People This document contains forward-looking statements such as a resurgence of COVID, the occurrence of severe (including with respect to the Brazil tax liability matter);
and Communities within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation weather or a natural disaster or other unanticipated and additional impairment charges. Such risks and other
Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are problems, such as labor difficulties, equipment failure or factors that may impact forward-looking statements are
Innovating for based on our current expectations, beliefs, plans or unscheduled maintenance and repair; failure to respond discussed in Item 1A “Risk Factors” in our Annual Report
Our Customers and forecasts and are typically identified by words or to changing customer preferences; the amount and on Form 10-K for fiscal year 2022, as well our subsequent
Their Customers phrases such as “may,” “will,” “could,” “should,” “would,” timing of capital expenditures, including installation filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The
“anticipate,” “estimate,” “expect,” “project,” “intend,” costs, project development and implementation costs, information contained herein speaks as of the date hereof,
Bettering the Planet “plan,” “believe,” “target,” “commit,” “prospects,” and costs related to resolving disputes with third parties and WestRock does not have or undertake any obligation to
“potential” and “forecast,” and other words, terms and with which we work to manage and implement capital update or revise its forward-looking statements, whether
phrases of similar meaning. Forward-looking statements projects; risks related to international sales and operations; as a result of new information, future events or otherwise,
Corporate Governance
involve estimates, expectations, projections, goals, the production of faulty or contaminated products; the except to the extent required by law.
forecasts, assumptions, risks and uncertainties. loss of certain customers; adverse legal, reputational,
ESG Performance
operational and financial effects resulting from cyber
Data Table
A forward-looking statement is not a guarantee of future
incidents and the effectiveness of business continuity
performance, and actual results could differ materially
plans during a ransomware or other cyber incident; work
Appendix
from those contained in the forward-looking statement.
stoppages and other labor relations difficulties; inability
External Initiatives Forward-looking statements are subject to a number of to attract, motivate, train and retain qualified personnel;
assumptions, risks and uncertainties, many of which are
Membership of risks associated with sustainability and climate change,
beyond our control, such as developments related to
Associations including our ability to achieve our environmental, social
pricing cycles and volumes; economic, competitive and
and governance targets and goals on announced timelines
GRI Index
market conditions generally, including macroeconomic
or at all; our inability to successfully identify and make
SASB Index uncertainty, and adverse developments affecting the performance and productivity improvements and risks
financial services industry customer inventory rebalancing,
TCFD Index associated with completing strategic projects on the
the impact of inflation and increases in energy, raw
anticipated timelines and realizing anticipated financial
UN Sustainable
Development Goals
Third-Party Assurance
70 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from Appendix I: External Initiatives
Our CEO
WestRock participates in several voluntary programs aimed at advancing social, environmental and economic initiatives.
About WestRock
Sustainability
at WestRock Organization or Program Purpose Scope of Application
Supporting People 4Evergreen is a cross-industry alliance perfecting the circularity of fiber-based packaging to contribute to a climate-neutral and EMEA
4Evergreen
and Communities sustainable society.
AIM-PROGRESS is a forum of companies that promote responsible sourcing practices and sustainable supply chains throughout
AIM-PROGRESS Global
Innovating for Europe and North America.
Our Customers and Better Practices, Better Planet 2020 is a voluntary initiative by the member companies of AF&PA to implement a broad set of
American Forest & Paper
Their Customers sustainability goals aimed at preserving and growing the economic contributions of the forest products industry and individual
Association (AF&PA), Better Global
member companies to society, fostering the well-being of communities, promoting sustainable manufacturing practices, advancing
Practices, Better Planet 2020
energy generation and conservation efforts, and promoting fiber procurement measures that protect the environment.
Bettering the Planet
Business for Nature is a global coalition bringing together influential organizations and forward-thinking businesses to amplify a
Business for Nature Global
powerful business voice calling for governments to reverse nature loss.
Corporate Governance
CDP is a not-for-profit charity that operates a global self-disclosure system for investors, companies, cities, states and regions to
CDP Global
measure and manage their greenhouse gas emissions and other environmental impacts.
ESG Performance
Data Table The Ellen MacArthur Foundation develops and promotes the idea of a circular economy. It works with and inspires business, academia,
Ellen MacArthur Foundation Global
policymakers and institutions to mobilize systems solutions at scale, globally.
Appendix Family Forest Impact Foundation The Family Forest Impact Foundation creates new opportunities for family forest owners to get financial and technical assistance. USA
֡ External Initiatives
Internationally recognized forest certification programs designed to ensure that virgin fiber used in manufacturing operations is
Membership of harvested in compliance with laws, with respect for traditional and human rights, and in a manner that protects forest ecosystems and
Associations regions of high conservation value.
GRI Index American Tree Farm System - ATFS USA
SASB Index
The Brazilian Certification Program - CERFLOR Brazil
Forest Certification Programs
TCFD Index
UN Sustainable Forest Stewardship Council - FSC Global
Development Goals
Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification - PEFC® Global
Third-Party Assurance
Sustainable Forestry Initiative - SFI North America
(continued)
71 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from Appendix I: External Initiatives
Our CEO
WestRock participates in several voluntary programs aimed at advancing social, environmental and economic initiatives.
About WestRock
Sustainability
at WestRock Organization or Program Purpose Scope of Application
Supporting People Sedex is one of the world’s leading ethical trade membership organizations, working with businesses to improve working conditions in Global
SEDEX
and Communities global supply chains.
EcoVadis EcoVadis is a membership organization that provides holistic sustainability ratings of companies. Global
Innovating for
Our Customers and
The Nature Conservancy The Nature Conservancy is a global environmental nonprofit working to create a world where people and nature can thrive. Global
Their Customers
The American Forest Foundation works on the ground with families, partners and elected officials to promote forest stewardship and
The American Forest Foundation USA
Bettering the Planet protect America’s forest heritage.
Corporate Governance
ESG Performance
Data Table
Appendix
֡ External Initiatives
Membership of
Associations
GRI Index
SASB Index
TCFD Index
UN Sustainable
Development Goals
Third-Party Assurance
72 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from Appendix I: Membership of Associations
Our CEO
About WestRock
Sustainability
Governance Level Project/Committee
at WestRock Organization or Program Purpose
Involvement Level Involvement
Supporting People American Forest & Paper AF&PA, the national trade association of the forest products industry, advances public policies that promote the U.S.
X X
and Communities Association (AF&PA) forest products industry.
AFF works on the ground with family forest owners, partners and elected officials to promote stewardship and
American Forest Foundation (AFF) X X
Innovating for protect the forest heritage of the United States.
Our Customers and
Brazilian Tree Industry (Ibá) lbá is an association responsible for representing the planted tree production chain. X
Their Customers
ABTCP promotes the technological development of the pulp and paper production chain through technical training,
Brazilian Pulp and Paper Technical
Bettering the Planet information and relationships.
Brazilian Association of Paper Packaging Empapel’s mission is to be recognized as an association that transforms the environmental differential of paper packaging. X X
Corporate Governance
CVMSDC promotes and facilitates business relationships between the public/private sector and certified minority-
Carolinas-Virginia Minority Supplier X
owned businesses in North Carolina, South Carolina and Virginia.
ESG Performance
Data Table CEPI Cartonboard is the trade association for the European pulp and paper industry. The organization represents
CEPI Cartonboard companies that manufacture solid unbleached sulphite, solid bleached sulphate, folding carton and white lined X
chipboard in Europe.
Appendix
The ELC is committed to advancing the role and contribution of Black executives and preparing the next generation
External Initiatives Executive Leadership Council (ELC) of corporate leaders.
֡ Membership of FBA works on issues of common interest and technical challenges relating to corrugated packaging and promotes
Fibre Box Association (FBA) X X
Associations the overall well-being of the corrugated industry.
GRI Index Georgia Minority Supplier
GMSDC is the state of Georgia’s leading advocacy organization for small business development and supplier diversity. X
Development Council (GMSDC)
SASB Index
Greater Women’s Business Council GWBC is a nonprofit organization providing nationally recognized certification through Women’s Business Enterprise
X
TCFD Index (GWBC) National Council (WBENC), and certifies women-owned businesses in Georgia, South Carolina and North Carolina.
UN Sustainable The mission of HMSDC is to actively involve its members in efforts that will increase and expand business
Houston Minority Supplier
Development Goals opportunities and business growth for minority business enterprises and to drive excellence in supplier diversity and
Development Council (HMSDC)
supplier development.
Third-Party Assurance
Industrial Energy Consumers of IECA is an organization that promotes the interests of manufacturing companies for which the availability, use and
America (IECA) cost of energy, power or feedstock plays a significant role in their ability to compete in domestic and world markets.
(continued)
73 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from Appendix I: Membership of Associations
Our CEO
About WestRock
Sustainability
Governance Level Project/Committee
at WestRock Organization or Program Purpose
Involvement Level Involvement
Supporting People National Association of Manufacturers NAM is an advocacy group that represents small and large manufacturers in every industrial sector and in all 50
X X
and Communities (NAM) U.S. states.
National Council for Air and Stream NCASI is an independent, nonprofit research organization that focuses on environmental and sustainability topics
X X
Innovating for Improvement (NCASI) relevant to forest management and the manufacturers of forest products.
Our Customers and National Gay and Lesbian Chamber of NGLCC is the business voice of the LGBT community and is the largest global not-for-profit advocacy organization
Their Customers Commerce (NGLCC) specifically dedicated to expanding economic opportunities and advancement for LGBT people.
National Minority Supplier NMSDC advances business opportunities for certified minority business enterprises and connects them to corporate
X
Bettering the Planet Development Council (NMSDC) members.
National Society of Black Engineers NSBE is one of the largest student-governed organizations based in the United States. NSBE supports and promotes
Corporate Governance (NSBE) the aspirations of collegiate and pre-collegiate students and technical professionals in engineering and technology.
PAC is a not-for-profit member-based consortium serving the needs of the packaging community in North America
PAC Packaging Consortium
ESG Performance and beyond. They are material and package neutral, supporting all sustainable, circular and safe packaging.
Data Table
PPC is exclusively dedicated to North American converters of paperboard packaging and their suppliers, working
Paperboard Packaging Council (PPC) X
together to elevate the industry for the benefit of each member company and a promising future.
Appendix
The P+PB is an agricultural promotion group designed to promote the use of paper products and paper-based
Paper and Packaging Board (P+PB) X X
External Initiatives packaging by highlighting the value they bring to our daily lives.
֡ Membership of Paper Recycling Coalition (PRC) PRC represents the interests of the 100% recycled paperboard and containerboard industries. X X
Associations
Pathbuilders is a professional mentoring and leadership development organization that offers cross-company
GRI Index Pathbuilders mentoring programs for women and custom programming for organizations focused on developing high-potential
women and retaining key talent.
SASB Index
TCFD Index Pulp and Paper Safety Association (PPSA) PPSA is devoted to the continuous improvement of safety throughout all aspects of the paper industry. X X
UN Sustainable RPTA is dedicated to the improvement and use of recycled paperboard and related products, and provides companies
Recycled Paperboard Technical
Development Goals that manufacture products containing a significant percentage of recycled fiber with a legal forum to discuss shared X X
Association (RPTA)
technical issues and interests.
Third-Party Assurance
Signature Leaders provides development experiences and programming for women at various stages of their career
Signature Leaders X
aimed at enabling women to grow and accelerate their leadership potential.
SWE empowers women to achieve full potential in careers as engineers and leaders, expand the image of the
Society for Women Engineers (SWE) engineering and technology professions as a positive force in improving the quality of life, and demonstrate the value
of diversity and inclusion.
(continued)
74 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from Appendix I: Membership of Associations
Our CEO
About WestRock
Sustainability
Governance Level Project/Committee
at WestRock Organization or Program Purpose
Involvement Level Involvement
Supporting People SPC is an industry working group that endeavors to build packaging systems that encourage economic prosperity
Sustainable Packaging Coalition (SPC) X
and Communities and a sustainable flow of materials.
Women in Manufacturing (WiM) WiM is dedicated to providing year-round support to women who have chosen a career in the manufacturing industry.
Innovating for
Our Customers and Women’s Business Enterprise WBENC is the largest certifier of women-owned businesses in the U.S. and a leading advocate for women business
Their Customers National Council (WBENC) owners and entrepreneurs.
Bettering the Planet
Corporate Governance
ESG Performance
Data Table
Appendix
External Initiatives
֡ Membership of
Associations
GRI Index
SASB Index
TCFD Index
UN Sustainable
Development Goals
Third-Party Assurance
75 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from Appendix II: GRI Index
Our CEO
About WestRock
GRI 2: General Disclosures
Sustainability
Disclosure Description Response
at WestRock
WestRock Company, a Delaware corporation, is a publicly traded company listed on the New York Stock
Exchange (NYSE: WRK). Our principal executive office is located at 1000 Abernathy Road NE, Atlanta, GA 30328.
Supporting People 2-1 Organizational details
and Communities
See About WestRock for information about the Locations of Operations.
2-2 Entities included in the organization’s sustainability reporting Not included in GRI document
Innovating for
2-3 Reporting period, frequency and contact point About this Report
Our Customers and
Their Customers 2-4 Restatements of information No restatements for this year’s report
GHG Emissions Reduction
2-5 External assurance
Bettering the Planet Appendix: Third-party Assurance
Our Purpose, Vision and Values
Corporate Governance Ensuring a Stable, Sustainable Supply Chain
2-6 Activities, value chain and other business relationships
The nature of our value chain and our key stakeholders are covered throughout our sustainability report. For
additional details on joint ventures and other key relationships, please refer to our 2022 Annual Report.
ESG Performance
Data Table 2-7 Employees Engaging Our People
Diversity, Inclusion, Equity and Belonging
Appendix 2-8 Workers who are not employees In fiscal year 2022, WestRock had 968 workers who are not employees; these workers generally include interns
and temporary employees. Over 90% of non-employees are outside of the United States.
External Initiatives
Identifying Risks and Acting Ethically
2-9 Governance structure and composition
Membership of Governance and Leadership
Associations
2-10 Nomination and selection of the highest governance body 2023 Proxy Statement
֡ GRI Index 2-11 Chair of the highest governance body 2023 Proxy Statement
SASB Index Role of the highest governance body in overseeing the Sustainability at WestRock
2-12
management of impacts Governance and Leadership
TCFD Index
Sustainability at WestRock
UN Sustainable 2-13 Delegation of responsibility for managing impacts
Governance and Leadership
Development Goals
2-14 Role of the highest governance body in sustainability reporting Governance and Leadership
Third-Party Assurance
Identifying Risks and Acting Ethically
2-15 Conflicts of interest
Values, Ethics and Conduct
2023 Proxy Statement, Health and Safety
2-16 Communication of critical concerns
Values, Ethics and Conduct
2-17 Collective knowledge of the highest governance body 2023 Proxy Statement
76 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from Appendix II: GRI Index
Our CEO
About WestRock
GRI 2: General Disclosures
Sustainability
Disclosure Description Response
at WestRock
2-18 Evaluation of the performance of the highest governance body 2023 Proxy Statement
Supporting People 2-19 Remuneration policies 2023 Proxy Statement
and Communities
2-20 Process to determine remuneration 2023 Proxy Statement
2-21 Annual total compensation ratio 2023 Proxy Statement
Innovating for
2-22 Statement on sustainable development strategy CEO Letter
Our Customers and
Their Customers Identifying Risks and Acting Ethically
2-23 Policy commitments
Values, Ethics and Conduct
Bettering the Planet Identifying Risks and Acting Ethically
2-24 Embedding policy commitments
Values, Ethics and Conduct
Corporate Governance 2-25 Processes to remediate negative impacts Values, Ethics and Conduct
2023 Proxy Statement
2-26 Mechanisms for seeking advice and raising concerns
ESG Performance Values, Ethics and Conduct
Data Table Environmental Compliance and Product Stewardship
2-27 Compliance with laws and regulations
Values, Ethics and Conduct
Appendix 2-28 Membership associations Appendix I: External Initiatives and Membership of Associations
External Initiatives 2-29 Approach to stakeholder engagement Stakeholder Engagement
Membership of Approximately 55% of our hourly employees in the U.S. and Canada are covered by collective bargaining
Associations 2-30 Collective bargaining agreements agreements (CBAs), which typically have four- to six-year terms. Approximately 32% of those employees are
working under agreements that expire within one year. Approximately 27% of these employees covered by CBAs
֡ GRI Index are working under expired contracts. For more details see our 2022 Annual Report.
SASB Index
TCFD Index
UN Sustainable
Development Goals
Third-Party Assurance
77 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from Appendix II: GRI Index
Our CEO
About WestRock
GRI 3: Material Topics19
Sustainability
Disclosure Description Response
at WestRock
3-1 Process to determine material topics Priority Assessment
Supporting People 3-2 List of material topics Priority Assessment
and Communities
GRI 201: Economic Performance
Innovating for
Our Customers and
Disclosure Description Response
Their Customers
3-3 Management of material topics Sustainability at WestRock
Bettering the Planet 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed See our 2022 Annual Report, pages 23-48
Climate
Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to
Corporate Governance 201-2 TCFD Index
climate change
2022 Annual Report
ESG Performance
Data Table GRI 205: Anti-Corruption
Appendix Disclosure Description Response
External Initiatives 3-3 Management of material topics Values, Ethics and Conduct
Membership of 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption Values, Ethics and Conduct
Associations Communication and training about anti-corruption policies
205-2 Values, Ethics and Conduct
and procedures
֡ GRI Index
205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Values, Ethics and Conduct
SASB Index
TCFD Index
GRI 206: Anti-Competitive Behavior
UN Sustainable
Development Goals Disclosure Description Response
Third-Party Assurance
3-3 Management of material topics Values, Ethics and Conduct
Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and
206-1 Values, Ethics and Conduct
monopoly practices
19 Please note that the applicable GRI metrics use the term “material.” We have used the term “priority” for consistency with this Report. See page 15 for more information.
78 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from Appendix II: GRI Index
Our CEO
About WestRock
GRI 301: Materials
Sustainability
Disclosure Description Response
at WestRock
Waste, Recycling and Circularity
3-3 Management of material topics
Sustainable Forestry and Biodiversity
Supporting People
and Communities Sustainable Forestry and Biodiversity
301-1 Material consumption by weight or volume
ESG Performance Data Table
Innovating for 301-2 Recycled input materials used Waste, Recycling and Circularity
Our Customers and
Their Customers GRI 302: Energy
Bettering the Planet Disclosure Description Response
3-3 Management of material topics Energy
Corporate Governance
Energy
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization
ESG Performance Data Table
ESG Performance
Energy
Data Table 302-3 Energy Intensity
ESG Performance Data Table
Energy
Appendix 302-4 Reduction of energy consumed
ESG Performance Data Table
External Initiatives
Membership of GRI 303: Water and Effluents
Associations
֡ GRI Index Disclosure Description Response
SASB Index 3-3 Management of material topics Water Stewardship
TCFD Index 303-4 Water discharge Water Stewardship
UN Sustainable
GRI 304: Biodiversity
Development Goals
Third-Party Assurance
Disclosure Description Response
3-3 Management of material topics Sustainable Forestry and Biodiversity
Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to,
304-1 protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside Sustainable Forestry and Biodiversity
protected areas
304-3 Habitats protected or restored Engaging Our Communities
79 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from Appendix II: GRI Index
Our CEO
About WestRock
GRI 305: Emissions
Sustainability
Disclosure Description Response
at WestRock
3-3 Management of material topics GHG Emissions Reduction
Supporting People 305-1 Direct (scope 1) GHG emissions GHG Emissions Reduction
and Communities
305-2 Indirect (scope 2) GHG emissions GHG Emissions Reduction
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions GHG Emissions Reduction
Innovating for
Nitrogen oxides (NO), sulfur oxides (SO) and other
Our Customers and 305-6 X x GHG Emissions Reduction
significant air emissions
Their Customers
GRI 306: Waste
Bettering the Planet
Disclosure Description Response
Corporate Governance
3-3 Management of material topics Waste, Recycling and Circularity
ESG Performance
306-2 Management of significant waste-related impacts Waste, Recycling and Circularity
Data Table
306-4 Waste diverted Waste, Recycling and Circularity
Appendix
GRI 307: Environmental Compliance
External Initiatives
Membership of Disclosure Description Response
Associations
3-3 Management of material topics Environmental Compliance and Product Stewardship
֡ GRI Index
307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Environmental Compliance and Product Stewardship
SASB Index
TCFD Index GRI 401: Employment
UN Sustainable
Disclosure Description Response
Development Goals
Third-Party Assurance 3-3 Management of material topics Engaging Our People
Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to
401-2 Engaging Our People
temporary or part-time employees
80 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from Appendix II: GRI Index
Our CEO
About WestRock
GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations
Sustainability
Disclosure Description Response
at WestRock
3-3 Management of material topics
Supporting People WestRock offers a market-based benefits program that has been designed to attract, reward and retain top
and Communities talent across the organization. Our benefits also have been tailored to respond to the evolving needs of our
diverse workforce. Benefits available to full-time WestRock employees not covered by union contracts include:
medical, prescription, dental, vision, health savings account, flexible spending account, employee assistance
Innovating for 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operations changes
program, short-term disability, long-term disability, vacation, flexible scheduling and telecommuting options at
Our Customers and our corporate offices, tuition reimbursement, employee wellness program, including physical and mental health
Their Customers programs and incentives for a healthy lifestyle, and defined benefit program. Beginning in fiscal year 2022, we
offered parental leave to our full-time employees.
Bettering the Planet
GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety
Corporate Governance
Disclosure Description Response
ESG Performance
3-3 Management of material topics Health and Safety
Data Table
403-1 Occupational health and safety management system Health and Safety
Appendix 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment and Iincident investigation Health and Safety
Worker participation, consultation and communication on
External Initiatives 403-4 Health and Safety
occupational health and safety
Membership of
403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety Health and Safety
Associations
403-9 Work-related injuries Health and Safety
֡ GRI Index
SASB Index
TCFD Index
UN Sustainable
Development Goals
Third-Party Assurance
81 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from Appendix II: GRI Index
Our CEO
About WestRock
GRI 404: Training and Education
Sustainability
Disclosure Description Response
at WestRock
3-3 Management of material topics Engaging Our People
Supporting People Average hours of training per employee = 8
404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee
and Communities Amount spent on training per employee = $55
Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition Engaging Our People
404-2
Innovating for assistance programs Diversity, Inclusion, Equity and Belonging
Our Customers and Salaried Employees
Their Customers Annually, WestRock salaried teammates go through a process of reflection on the past year (“looking back/looking
forward”) and how they were able to achieve their goals/Objectives and Key Results (OKRs). Managers do the
same for each of their direct reports (98% of teammates in fiscal year 2022 received a written review from their
Bettering the Planet
manager). Teammates are evaluated on a five-point performance scale. Calibration sessions are conducted within
business functions to look across the talent and ensure performance ratings are calibrated with senior leaders.
Corporate Governance The year-end conversation is an opportunity to highlight strengths, identify opportunities, areas for growth and
404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and development and celebrate what the teammate accomplished in the last year.
career development reviews
ESG Performance Total Employee Population
Data Table ֡ Men receiving a performance review (66%)
֡ Women receiving a performance review (34%)
֡ Executive population 0.2%
Appendix ֡ Management population 37%
֡ Professional population 53%
External Initiatives
֡ Business support population 8%
Membership of
Associations
֡ GRI Index
GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity
SASB Index
TCFD Index Disclosure Description Response
UN Sustainable 3-3 Management of material topics Governance and Leadership
Development Goals
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Governance and Leadership
Third-Party Assurance
82 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from Appendix II: GRI Index
Our CEO
About WestRock
GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment
Sustainability
Disclosure Description Response
at WestRock
3-3 Management of material topics Values, Ethics and Conduct
Supporting People Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or
412-1 Values, Ethics and Conduct
and Communities impact assessments
412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures Values, Ethics and Conduct
Innovating for
Our Customers and GRI 413: Local Communities
Their Customers
Disclosure Description Response
Bettering the Planet
3-3 Management of material topics Engaging Our Communities
Corporate Governance Engaging Our Communities
Operations with local community engagement,
413-1 Sustainability at WestRock
impact assessments and development programs
Diversity, Inclusion, Equity and Belonging
ESG Performance
Data Table
GRI 415: Public Policies
Appendix
Disclosure Description Response
External Initiatives
3-3 Management of material topics Political Contributions
Membership of
Associations 415-1 Political contributions Political Contributions
֡ GRI Index
SASB Index
TCFD Index
UN Sustainable
Development Goals
Third-Party Assurance
83 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from Appendix II: GRI Index
Our CEO
About WestRock
GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety
Sustainability
Disclosure Description Response
at WestRock
Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and
416-1 Environmental Compliance and Product Stewardship
service categories
Supporting People
and Communities
Innovating for GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance
Our Customers and
Their Customers Disclosure Description Response
WestRock is committed to operating our business with high standards of ethics and integrity and in compliance
Bettering the Planet 3-3 Management of material topics
with the laws applicable to our operations. See “Values, Ethics and Conduct” for more information.
No material fines were paid during fiscal year 2022 for non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social
Corporate Governance Non-compliance with laws and regulation in the social and
419-1 or economic areas, including laws or regulations related to accounting and tax fraud, corruption, bribery,
economic area
competition, the provision of products and services, or labor issues, such as workplace discrimination.
ESG Performance
Data Table
Appendix
External Initiatives
Membership of
Associations
֡ GRI Index
SASB Index
TCFD Index
UN Sustainable
Development Goals
Third-Party Assurance
84 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from Appendix II: SASB Index
Our CEO
About WestRock
Table 1. Sustainability Disclosure Topics & Accounting Metrics for the Containers & Packaging Standard
Sustainability
Topic Accounting Metric Unit of Measure Code FY22 Value Location
at WestRock
Metric tons (t)
Gross global Scope 1 emissions RT-CP-110a.1 6,273,921 GHG Emissions Reduction
COe
Supporting People 2
and Communities Greenhouse Gas Emissions Discussion of long-term and short-term strategy or plan to manage Scope 1
emissions, emissions reduction targets and an analysis of performance against n/a RT-CP-110a.2 - GHG Emissions Reduction
those targets
Innovating for
Air emissions of the following pollutants:
Our Customers and 24,868
Air Quality (1) NO (excluding N2O) Metric tons (t) RT-CP-120a.1 GHG Emissions Reduction
Their Customers X 9,936.0
(2) SOx
(1) Total energy consumed Gigajoules (GJ), 339,396,269
Bettering the Planet Energy Management RT-CP-130a.1 Energy
(2) Percentage renewable Percentage (%) 62.23%
(1) Total water withdrawn Thousand cubic 504,310,563
Corporate Governance RT-CP-140a.1 Water Stewardship
(2) Total water consumed meters (m³) 62,947,448
Description of water management risks and discussion of strategies and practices
ESG Performance Water Management n/a RT-CP-140a.2 - Water Stewardship
to mitigate those risks
Data Table
Number of incidents of non-compliance associated with water quality permits, Environmental Compliance
Number RT-CP-140a.3 0
standards, and regulations and Product Stewardship
Appendix
Discussion of process to identify and manage emerging materials and chemicals Environmental Compliance
Product Safety n/a RT-CP-250a.2 -
External Initiatives of concern and Product Stewardship
Membership of Discussion of strategies to reduce the environmental impact of packaging Environmental Compliance
Product Life Cycle Management n/a RT-CP-410a.3 -
Associations throughout its life cycle and Product Stewardship
GRI Index Supply Chain Management Total virgin wood fiber procured Tons (t), RT-CP-430a.1 36,188,708 Sustainable Forestry
Percentage (%) and Biodiversity
֡ SASB Index
TCFD Index
UN Sustainable
Development Goals
Third-Party Assurance
85 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from Appendix II: SASB Index
Our CEO
About WestRock
Table 2. Activity Metrics
Sustainability
Accounting Metric Unit of Measure Code FY22 Value Location
at WestRock
Amount of production (paper) Metric tons (t) RT-CP-000.A 13,097,583 ESG Performance Data Table
Supporting People Supporting People
Number of Employees Number RT-CP-000.C 49,536
and Communities and Communities
Innovating for Table 3. Modified and Omitted Accounting Metrics
Our Customers and
Their Customers Topic Accounting Metric Unit of Measure Code FY22 Value Rationale
Greehouse Gas Emissions Percentage covered under emissions-limiting regulations Percentage (%) RT-CP-110a.1 Omitted Not currently reported
Bettering the Planet
Air emissions of the following pollutants: (3) Volatile organic compounds (VOCs),
Air Quality Metric tons (t) RT-CP-120a.1 Omitted Not currently reported
and (4) Particulate matter (PM)
Corporate Governance
"Gigajoules (GJ),
Energy Management (2) percentage grid electricity, (4) Total self-generated energy RT-CP-130a.1 Omitted Not currently reported
Percentage (%)"
ESG Performance
Data Table Water Management Percentage of each (withdrawal and consumption) in regions with High or Extremely Percentage (%) RT-CP-140a.1 Modified Not currently reported
High Baseline Water Stress
Appendix Waste Management Amount of hazardous waste generated, percentage recycled Metric tons (t), RT-CP-150a.1 Omitted Not currently reported
Percentage (%)
External Initiatives
Product Safety Number of recalls issued, total units recalled Number RT-CP-250a.1 Omitted Not currently reported
Membership of
Percentage of raw materials from:
Associations
(1) Recycled content Percentage (%)
RT-CP-410a.1 Omitted Not currently reported
GRI Index Product Safety (2) Renewable resources by weight
(3) Renewable and recycled content
֡ SASB Index
Revenue from products that are reusable, recyclable and/or compostable Reporting currency RT-CP-410a.2 Omitted Not currently reported
TCFD Index
Total aluminum purchased, Total virgin wood fiber procured, percentage from Metric tons (t),
Supply Chain Management RT-CP-430a.2 Omitted Not currently reported
UN Sustainable certified sources Percentage (%)
Development Goals
Third-Party Assurance Table 4. Modified and Omitted Activity Metrics
Accounting Metric Unit of Measure Code FY22 Value Rationale
Percentage of production as:
Percentage (%)
(1) Paper/wood, (2) Glass, RT-CP-000.B Omitted Not currently reported
by revenue
(3) Metal and (4) Plastic
86 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from Appendix II: TCFD Index
Our CEO
About WestRock
Task Force for Climate Related Disclosures (TCFD) Index
Sustainability
at WestRock Governance
a) Board oversight Board-level oversight of climate-related matters resides with WestRock’s Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee (the “Governance Committee”), and six members of the
Supporting People
board of directors have sustainability experience. The Governance Committee’s charter provides that one of its principal duties and responsibilities is to oversee WestRock’s policies,
and Communities
strategies and programs related to environmental, social and governance (“ESG”) matters, including climate issues and strategy, as well as other sustainability matters. During fiscal
year 2022, the Governance Committee determined to increase the cadence of its meetings to four times per year beginning in fiscal year 2023, which is expected to, among other
Innovating for things, expand the frequency with which sustainability topics are discussed with the Governance Committee. The senior vice president of Strategy and Sustainability regularly briefs
Our Customers and the Governance Committee’s members on the company’s climate strategy and progress against our validated Science-Based Target (SBT) for greenhouse gas emissions reduction.
Their Customers b) Management’s role WestRock’s executive leadership team is responsible for establishing the company’s sustainability strategy, including our approach to climate-related issues. Our senior vice
president of Strategy and Sustainability provides guidance to our executive leadership team on our sustainability approach, helps to link our sustainability and business initiatives
and drives implementation of our sustainability strategy throughout the organization in collaboration with other executives. Our senior vice president of Strategy and Sustainability
Bettering the Planet
reports to the president of our Global Paper segment, who is a member of the executive leadership team.
Corporate Governance Our vice president, Sustainability, who reports to our senior vice president, Strategy and Sustainability, manages day-to-day sustainability work and leads the company’s
sustainability reporting efforts, including our progress against our 2030 SBT. The vice president, Sustainability also meets regularly with customers to learn about their climate-
related ambitions and challenges, oversees product life cycle analysis work to evaluate the greenhouse gas (GHG) profile of our products and participates in various organizations to
ESG Performance
keep abreast of climate-related developments.
Data Table
WestRock has formed a Sustainability Council composed of functional leaders from across the enterprise to facilitate ongoing refinement and execution of our sustainability
Appendix strategy. Additionally, cross-functional working groups and teams within the organization provide input on our sustainability strategy and ensure our work on our climate-
related priorities is aligned with and embedded into our operations. These teams include representatives from our product stewardship, environmental, innovation, engineering,
External Initiatives manufacturing, finance, legal and communication groups.
Membership of
Associations
GRI Index
SASB Index
֡ TCFD Index
UN Sustainable
Development Goals
Third-Party Assurance
87 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from Appendix II: TCFD Index
Our CEO
About WestRock
Task Force for Climate Related Disclosures (TCFD) Index
Sustainability
at WestRock Strategy
a) Climate-related risks Our SBT is the cornerstone of WestRock’s climate strategy, and we have committed to achieve this target by 2030. Within this short to medium time horizon, we will face certain
Supporting People
and opportunities climate-related opportunities and risks.
and Communities
Our climate-related opportunities include:
Innovating for
Our Customers and ֡ Increasing our sales of fiber-based packaging by capitalizing on shifting consumer preferences for products that advance the circular economy and reduce or replace single-
Their Customers use, fossil fuel-based plastics. We estimate our plastics replacement revenue annual run rate at $365 million, which we are seeking to grow to more than $700 million by fiscal
year 2025.
֡ Expanding our installed base of packaging machinery solutions, which have the potential to improve customers’ GHG profiles by optimizing raw material usage, improving
Bettering the Planet
manufacturing efficiencies and reducing or eliminating plastic waste.
֡ Attracting investors and talented employees, as well as cultivating positive relationships with communities where we operate and with other stakeholders, by demonstrating
Corporate Governance
our leadership in sustainability with our sustainability targets, including our SBT.
֡ Improving the resiliency of our energy supply chain and potentially lowering our operating costs by reducing or eliminating fossil fuels such as coal and oil.
ESG Performance
Data Table
Our climate-related risks include:
Appendix ֡ Lost production and damage to our physical assets and infrastructure, including our manufacturing facilities, as the result of severe weather-related events, such as
hurricanes, tornadoes, other extreme storms, wildfires and floods.
External Initiatives
֡ Supply chain disruptions and increased material costs, such as through impacts to virgin fiber supplies and prices, during prolonged periods of heavy rain, heat, drought, tree
Membership of
disease or insect epidemics or other environmental conditions that may be caused by variations in conditions.
Associations
֡ Additional compliance costs and burdens resulting from the enactment of new laws and regulations aimed at reducing carbon emissions, which could take the form of cap-
GRI Index and-trade, carbon taxes or a GHG reduction mandate.
SASB Index ֡ Higher prices for certain raw materials and fuels, including natural gas, related to the transition to a lower-carbon economy or the enactment of GHG reduction mandates. Also,
new climate rules and regulations that result in fuel efficiency standards could increase WestRock’s transportation costs.
֡ TCFD Index
֡ Increased capital expenditures and/or operating costs to meet our SBT. Also, the anticipated capital and operational costs to achieve our SBT could deviate materially from our
UN Sustainable initial estimates.
Development Goals
֡ Climate change may be a potential source of reputational risk tied to customer or other stakeholder perceptions if we are unable to achieve our SBT fully or on time due to
Third-Party Assurance various risks and uncertainties, some of which are outside our control.
֡ Climate change may be a potential source of reputational risk if customer or other stakeholder expectations increase beyond our current SBT commitment, requiring increased
capital expenditures and/or operating costs.
88 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from Appendix II: TCFD Index
Our CEO
About WestRock
Task Force for Climate Related Disclosures (TCFD) Index
Sustainability
at WestRock Strategy
b) Impact of climate-related WestRock has combined our corporate sustainability and strategy functions to ensure that climate risks and opportunities, risk mitigation measures, and investments to
Supporting People
risks and opportunities on achieve our SBT are factored into, and are consistent with, our corporate purpose, vision and strategy.
and Communities
the business, strategy and
financial planning Our Sustainability Council, which includes key business and functional leaders from across the organization, is a forum we use to drive alignment between our sustainability
and operational initiatives and day-to-day business activities.
Innovating for
Our Customers and
WestRock is intentional about incorporating climate-related considerations into our capital planning processes and related strategies. Our Engineering and Manufacturing
Their Customers Services (EMS) group, which is responsible for developing and tracking capital investments from across the enterprise, maintains a database of sustainability projects,
including those aimed at carbon reduction.
Bettering the Planet
Our EMS and sustainability teams meet regularly with business and executive leaders to ensure that our capital investment strategy takes our climate and other sustainability
objectives into account.
Corporate Governance
c) Resilience of the WestRock has a validated SBT aligned to a well below 2-degree Celsius (2°C) ambition. Our strategy for achieving this target is multi-faceted and includes consideration
organization’s of a number of alternatives that can be deployed in combination with energy efficiency projects, fuel switching, low carbon technology investments, electricity grid
ESG Performance climate strategy decarbonization, physical and renewable power purchase agreements and manufacturing footprint rationalizations. We have processes for regularly evaluating and optimizing
Data Table our SBT strategy to account for changes in markets dynamics and customer preferences, our business operations, laws and regulations, and climate science.
As part of our continual improvement efforts in this area, WestRock plans to investigate available tools for evaluating physical and transition risks under hypothetical future
Appendix climate states in addition to the 2°C scenario.
External Initiatives
Membership of
Associations
GRI Index
SASB Index
֡ TCFD Index
UN Sustainable
Development Goals
Third-Party Assurance
89 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from Appendix II: TCFD Index
Our CEO
About WestRock
Task Force for Climate Related Disclosures (TCFD) Index
Sustainability
at WestRock Risk Management
a) Processes for identifying WestRock uses several methods to identify and assess climate-related risks.
Supporting People
and assessing climate-
and Communities related risks Our GHG data is a foundational element of our climate risk assessment process. We collect and track GHG emissions information from our global manufacturing facilities in
a centralized system that includes internal quality assurance controls. Also, our pulp and paper mills in the U.S., which are our most energy-intensive sites, report biogenic
and fossil fuel GHG emissions for combustion units and certain other equipment on a source-specific basis. WestRock uses internal GHG data and external benchmarking
Innovating for
information to evaluate the performance of our paper mills based on their GHG intensity.
Our Customers and
Their Customers WestRock participates in industry associations and other organizations that help us stay abreast of climate-related scientific issues and regulatory changes. These
organizations include, but are not limited to, the American Forest & Paper Association, the National Council for Air and Stream Improvement, CDP and SBTi.
Bettering the Planet
We regularly participate in meetings and other discussions with external stakeholders, including our customers, suppliers, communities and government representatives, to gain
insights and gather diverse perspectives on climate-related issues, and we use this information to inform our risk identification work. Finally, we leverage the experience and
Corporate Governance insights of our Sustainability Council members to identify climate-related risks with potential to impact our business.
b) Process for managing WestRock has multiple tools and processes for managing climate-related risks.
ESG Performance climate-related risks
֡ We have a property conservation program designed to minimize physical risks associated with severe weather events. This program consists of casualty insurance for
Data Table
property damage and production interruptions, as well as periodic on-site reviews and inspections to evaluate sites’ ability to withstand anticipated flooding and other severe
weather events.
Appendix
֡ WestRock has developed contingency plans to address supply chain interruptions and established a business continuity team composed of senior leaders from several
External Initiatives operational and functional groups. This team develops and implements business continuity plans designed to ensure that our operations are well positioned to continue
producing and delivering products to customers without disruption, including during severe weather events.
Membership of
֡ We incorporate a review of meteorological forecast data into our fiber procurement decisions and strategies as a method of mitigating risks to this vital raw material supply chain.
Associations
֡ WestRock’s government relations and environmental teams monitor global developments in climate-related laws, regulations and policies on an ongoing basis to assess the
GRI Index
potential impact of such developments on our results of operations and compliance obligations. We also participate in various trade associations and other organizations that
SASB Index provide us with information on changes in climate laws.
֡ TCFD Index ֡ Directly and through our trade associations, we participate in forums to educate lawmakers, the public and others on the sustainability attributes of biomass and
fiber-based packaging.
UN Sustainable
֡ We have a cross-functional team of sustainability, product stewardship, environmental, innovation, engineering, manufacturing, finance, legal and communication
Development Goals
representatives who investigate potential GHG reduction opportunities and low carbon technologies and help us refine our strategy to achieve our SBT.
Third-Party Assurance ֡ WestRock has developed a proprietary Design for the Environment Tool in accordance with ISO 14040 and ISO 14044, which is designed to optimize the carbon footprint of our
products so that we can provide customers with packaging that helps them advance their sustainability goals.
90 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from Appendix II: TCFD Index
Our CEO
About WestRock
Task Force for Climate Related Disclosures (TCFD) Index
Sustainability
at WestRock Risk Management
c) Process for integrating Annually, WestRock’s internal audit group interviews senior executives and a broad cross-section of the company’s functional and operational leaders to identify areas of
Supporting People
processes for identifying, material risk to the enterprise and seeks feedback on the effectiveness of applicable controls. In 2023, we added climate-related topics to this risk assessment. The results
and Communities
assessing and managing of this work will be shared with our board of directors. In addition, the board’s Governance Committee receives periodic updates on climate-related issues, our strategy for
climate-related risks into achieving our SBT and our progress against this target.
Innovating for the organization’s overall
Our Customers and risk management Our capital project request form contains a calculator that facilities can use to estimate the sustainability attributes of their proposed investment, including the potential
impacts on carbon emissions. Additionally, during annual budget and strategy meetings, our paper mills discuss opportunities for reducing GHG emissions by improving energy
Their Customers
efficiency and reducing fossil fuel use.
Bettering the Planet
Corporate Governance
ESG Performance
Data Table
Appendix
External Initiatives
Membership of
Associations
GRI Index
SASB Index
֡ TCFD Index
UN Sustainable
Development Goals
Third-Party Assurance
91 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from Appendix II: TCFD Index
Our CEO
About WestRock
Task Force for Climate Related Disclosures (TCFD) Index
Sustainability
at WestRock Metrics and Targets
a) Metrics used to assess
Supporting People WestRock uses the following climate-related metrics:
climate-related risks
and Communities
and opportunities in line ֡ GHG emissions – absolute Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 emissions as measured by metric ton of COe (MTCOe).
2 2
with strategy and risk
Innovating for management processes
Our Customers and b) Scope 1, Scope 2 and ֡ Total Scope 1
Their Customers Scope 3 GHG emissions
↳ Total emissions from direct fuels for all WestRock sites were 6,273,921 tonnes of COe in fiscal year 2022.
2
֡ Total Scope 2
Bettering the Planet
↳ Location-based emissions from indirect electricity and steam purchases for all WestRock sites were 1,885,216 tonnes of COe in fiscal year 2022.
2
Corporate Governance ↳ Market-based emissions from indirect electricity and steam purchases for all WestRock sites were 2,566,943 tonnes of CO 2e in fiscal year 2022.
֡ WestRock is in the process of creating an inventory and tracking process for our Scope 3 emissions in accordance with the GHG Protocol Scope 3 standard.
ESG Performance c) Targets used to manage
WestRock has voluntarily established targets to reduce enterprise GHG emissions by 2030. We have validated an SBT to reduce absolute Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by
Data Table climate-related risks
27.5% by 2030 from a 2019 baseline year to achieve a well below 2° C ambition. The SBT also includes a targeted reduction in absolute Scope 3 GHG emissions from purchased
and opportunities and
goods and services, fuel and energy activities, upstream and downstream transportation and distribution, and end-of-life treatment of sold products by 27.5% within the same
performance against targets
Appendix period.
External Initiatives
Membership of
Associations
For additional information regarding these matters, please refer to our 2022 Annual Report and our 2023 Proxy Statement.
GRI Index
SASB Index
֡ TCFD Index
UN Sustainable
Development Goals
Third-Party Assurance
92 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from Appendix II: UN Sustainable Development Goals
Our CEO
We found that our timebound sustainability targets make a direct, positive contribution to the following United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
About WestRock See the progress table on page 10 for more information on how each of our sustainability targets contribute to the goals.
Sustainability
Goal Goal Description
at WestRock
5 Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls
Supporting People
6 Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all
and Communities
7 Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all
Innovating for 8 Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all
Our Customers and
10 Reduce inequality within and among countries
Their Customers
12 Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns
Bettering the Planet 13 Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts
15 Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, and halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss
Corporate Governance
ESG Performance
Data Table
Appendix
External Initiatives
Membership of
Associations
GRI Index
SASB Index
TCFD Index
֡ UN Sustainable
Development Goals
Third-Party Assurance
93 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from Appendix II: Third-Party Assurance
Our CEO
About WestRock
Sustainability
at WestRock Ernst & Young LLP Tel: +1 404 874 8300
Suite 1000 Fax: +1 404 817 5589
55 Ivan Allen Jr. Boulevard ey.com
Supporting People Atlanta, GA 30308
and Communities
Independent Accountants’ Review Report
Innovating for
Our Customers and
To the Management of WestRock Company
Their Customers
We have reviewed WestRock Company’s (“WestRock”) accompanying schedules of selected sustainability indicators included in Appendix
Bettering the Planet
A (the “Subject Matter”) for the reporting periods indicated in the table below, based on the criteria also set forth in Appendix A (the
“Criteria”). WestRock’s management is responsible for the Subject Matter based on the Criteria. Our responsibility is to express a conclusion
Corporate Governance on the Subject Matter based on our review.
Subject Matter Reporting Period
ESG Performance
Data Table Schedule of Recordable Incident Rate For the year ended September 30, 2022
Schedule of Select Diversity Metrics As of September 30, 2022
Appendix
Schedule of Select Employment Metrics For the year ended September 30, 2022
External Initiatives Schedule of Facilities Located in a High-Risk Country of Operation As of September 30, 2022
Membership of Schedule of Select Environmental Metrics For the year ended September 30, 2022
Associations
Our review was conducted in accordance with attestation standards established by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants
GRI Index
(AICPA) AT-C section 105, Concepts Common to All Attestation Engagements, and AT-C section 210, Review Engagements. Those
SASB Index standards require that we plan and perform our review to obtain limited assurance about whether any material modifications should be
made to the Subject Matter in order for it to be based on the Criteria.The procedures performed in a review vary in nature and timing from
TCFD Index
and are substantially less in extent than an examination, the objective of which is to obtain reasonable assurance about whetherthe Subject
UN Sustainable Matter is based on the Criteria, in all material respects, in order to express an opinion. Accordingly, we do not express such an opinion.
Development Goals Because of the limited nature of the engagement, the level of assurance obtained in a review is substantially lower than the assurance that
would have been obtained had an examination been performed. As such, a review does not provide assurance that we became aware of all
֡ Third-Party Assurance
significant matters that would be disclosed in an examination. We believe that the review evidence obtained is sufficient and appropriate
to provide a reasonable basis for our conclusion.
A member firm of Ernst & Young GlobalLimited 1
94 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from Appendix II: Third-Party Assurance
Our CEO
About WestRock
Sustainability
at WestRock
Supporting People
and Communities
We are required to be independent of WestRock and to meet our other ethical responsibilities, in accordance with the relevant ethical
Innovating for requirements related to our review engagement.Additionally, we have complied with the other ethical requirements set forth in the Code
Our Customers and of Professional Conduct and applied the Statements on Quality Control Standards established by the AICPA.
Their Customers
The procedures we performed were based on our professional judgment. Our review consisted principally of applying analytical procedures,
making inquiries of persons responsible for the subject matter, obtaining an understanding of the data management systems and processes
Bettering the Planet used to generate, aggregate and report the Subject Matter and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the
circumstances.
Corporate Governance
As described in Appendix A, the Subject Matter is subject to measurement uncertainties resulting from limitations inherent in the nature
and the methods used for determining such data. The selection of different but acceptable measurement techniques can result in materially
ESG Performance different measurements. The precision of different measurement techniques may also vary.
Data Table
The information included in WestRock’s 2022 Sustainability Report and Climate Change, Forests, and Water Security 2023 submission to
the CDP, formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project, other than the Subject Matter, has not been subjected to the procedures applied in our
Appendix review and, accordingly, we express no conclusion on it.
External Initiatives
Based on our review, we are not aware of any material modifications that should be made to the accompanying schedules of selected
Membership of sustainability indicators included in Appendix A for the reporting periods as indicated in the table above, in order for the schedules to be
Associations based on the Criteria.
GRI Index
SASB Index
TCFD Index
May 18, 2023
UN Sustainable
Development Goals
֡ Third-Party Assurance
A memberfirm of Ernst & Young Global Limited 2
95 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from Appendix II: Third-Party Assurance
Our CEO
About WestRock
Sustainability
at WestRock
Appendix A – WestRock Company Schedules of Selected Sustainability Indicators
Supporting People
and Communities Schedule of
Recordable Incident Rate
for the yearended September 30, 2022
Innovating for
Our Customers and
Indicator name Reported value Units of measure Criteria Reporting Boundary
Their Customers Recordable incident rate (RIR)1,2 1.693 Recordable Recordable incident rate, presented WestRock includes employees (salaried and
incidents per 100 as the rate of recordable work- hourly) and contractors that WestRock directly
employees related incidents, as defined in GRI supervises in its calculation.
Bettering the Planet 403-9(a)(iii), 403-9(e), 403-9(f) and
403-9(g)4. Significant contextual
information necessary to understand
Corporate Governance how the data have been compiled
have been disclosed.
ESG Performance
Data Table
Appendix
External Initiatives 1 WestRock calculates its RIR by dividing the number of recordable work-related incidents by the number of total hours worked and multiplying the quotient by 200,000.
2 WestRock defines a "recordable event" as any occupational injury/illness that results in the following:
Membership of • Fatalities, regardless of the time between the injury and death, or the length of the illness; or
Associations • Days away from work cases, other than fatalities; or
• Non-fatal cases without days away from work that:
GRI Index
• Result in transfer to another job or termination of employment
SASB Index • Require medical treatment (other than first aid)
• Involve loss of consciousness
TCFD Index
• Result in restriction of work or motion
UN Sustainable 3 Recordable incident rate was determined as of April 3, 2023, for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2022. The number of recordable incidents is based upon employees self-reporting
work-related injuries or illnesses which may be affected by culture, societal norms, and/or regulations. To the extent a recordable incident is not self-reported, it would not be included in
Development Goals the recordable incident rate calculation.
4 Other criteria included in GRI 403-9a (i.e., for all employees, number and rate of fatalities as a result of work related injuries, number and rate of high consequence work-related injuries,
֡ Third-Party Assurance number of recordable work-related injuries, types of work-related injuries, number of hours worked) and other components of GRI 403-9 (i.e., for employees and workers who are not
employees but whose work and/or workplace is controlled by the organization, the number and rate of fatalities as a result of work-related injury, the number and rate of high-
consequence work-related injuries (excluding fatalities), the number and rate of recordable work-related injuries, the main types of work-related injury, the number of hours worked;
work-related hazards that pose a risk of high-consequence injury; any actions taken or underway to eliminate these hazards and minimize risks using the hierarchy of controls; and
whether any workers have been excluded from this disclosure) are excluded.
3
96 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from Appendix II: Third-Party Assurance
Our CEO
About WestRock
Sustainability
at WestRock
Schedule of
Supporting People
Select Diversity Metrics
and Communities as of September 30, 2022
Indicator
Innovating for Reported Value (%)
Name
Our Customers and Board of Male Female
Their Customers D Gi er ne dc eto rrs by 66.7% 33.3%
Employees by
77.7% 22.3%
Gender
Bettering the Planet
Employees by Under 30 Years 30-50 Years Over 50 Years
Age 14.8% 46.3% 38.9%
Corporate Governance Employees by People of Color (POC) Non-POC Unspecified
Ethnicity5 35.1% 62.8% 2.1%
As defined by GRI 405-1(a): Percentage of individuals within the organization’s governance bodies in each of the following diversity categories:
ESG Performance i. Gender
Data Table Criteria6 iA . s G d ee nf din ered by GRI 405-1(b): Percentage of employees per employee category in each of the following diversity categories:
ii. Age group (under 30, 30-50, above 50)
iii. Other indicators of diversity where relevant (such as minority or vulnerable groups)
Appendix Reporting Metrics for WestRock’s Board of Directors include all members of the Board. For employee-level metrics, WestRock includes all employees, except for interns and temporary employees, unless
Boundary otherwise noted.
External Initiatives
Membership of
Associations
GRI Index
SASB Index
TCFD Index
UN Sustainable
Development Goals
֡ Third-Party Assurance 5 The diversity of employees by ethnicity is limited only to WestRock’s employees that are based in the United States. WestRock does not collect racial/ethnic demographics of its
employees outside of the United States. The number of employees that are reported as people of color is based upon employees self-reporting their ethnicity. The “Unspecified” category
of employees are those who declined to disclose such information.
6 Other criteria included in GRI 405-1 (i.e. percentage of individuals within the organization’s governance bodies by age group and other relevant indicators (e.g., race/ethnicity), and
percentage of employees by function (such as technical, administrative, production), by gender, age group, and other relevant indicators (e.g., race/ethnicity)) are excluded.
4
97 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from Appendix II: Third-Party Assurance
Our CEO
About WestRock
Sustainability
at WestRock
Schedule of
Supporting People
Select Diversity Metrics
and Communities as of September 30, 2022
Indicator Name Reported Value (%)
Innovating for
Salary Hourly
Our Customers and Employees by Pay Category
29.7% 70.3%
Their Customers
North America EMEA Latin America Asia-Pacific
Employees by Region7
79.3% 10.9% 7.3% 2.5%
Bettering the Planet
Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female
Employees by Gender by Region
79.4% 20.6% 68.9% 31.1% 74.3% 25.7% 71.9% 28.1%
Corporate Governance
Percentage of employees per employee category in each of the following categories:
Criteria i. Pay category (hourly vs. salary)
ESG Performance ii. Region
Data Table iii. Gender by Region
Reporting Boundary WestRock includes all employees, except for interns and temporary employees, unless otherwise noted.
Appendix
External Initiatives
Membership of
Associations
GRI Index
SASB Index
TCFD Index
UN Sustainable
Development Goals
֡ Third-Party Assurance
7 EMEA is defined as Europe, Middle East and Africa. WestRock captures employees within Canada and the United States within the North America region. All other employees in the
Americas are captured within Latin America. Beginning in FY22, Mexico has been re-aligned from the North America region to Latin America. This re-alignment contributed to an increase
in the percentage of employees in the Latin America region as well as an increase in female employees in the Latin America region as compared to prior year reporting. WestRock notes
the re-alignment is in response to the acquisition of Grupo Gondi in Mexico during Q1 of FY23, which is intended to grow and support operations in Latin America.
5
98 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from Appendix II: Third-Party Assurance
Our CEO
About WestRock
Sustainability
at WestRock
Schedule of
Supporting People
Select Employment Metrics
and Communities for the year ended September 30, 2022
Indicator name Reported Value (%)8
Innovating for
Employment by gender Male Female
Our Customers and
New Hires 72.8% 27.2%
Their Customers
Turnover 75.8% 24.2%
Employment by age Under 30 Years 30-50 years Over 50 years
Bettering the Planet
New hires 37.2% 47.2% 15.6%
Turnover 30.6% 45.3% 24.1%
Corporate Governance
Employment by region9 North America EMEA Latin America Asia-Pacific
New Hires 90.5% 3.4% 5.6% 0.5%
ESG Performance
Turnover 88.0% 4.5% 5.4% 2.1%
Data Table
Employee metrics are reported as defined in GRI 401-110. Significant contextual informationnecessary to understand how the
Criteria
data have been compiled have been disclosed.
Appendix WestRock includes all new hires and terminated employees, except for interns and temporary employees, unless otherwise
Reporting Boundary
noted.
External Initiatives
Membership of
Associations
GRI Index
SASB Index
TCFD Index
8 Employment metrics were determined as of December 6, 2022, for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2022. Certain new hire and employee turnover information may not be reflected
UN Sustainable in the reported metrics for transactions occurring close to year-end and processed subsequent to December 6, 2022. For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2022, these instances
were determined to have insignificant impacts on the reported metrics.
Development Goals 9 EMEA is defined as Europe, Middle East and Africa. WestRock captures employees within Canada and the United States within the North America region. All other employees in the
Americas are captured within Latin America. Beginning in FY22, Mexico has been re-aligned from the North America region to Latin America. This re-alignment contributed to an increase
֡ Third-Party Assurance in the percentage of new hires in the Latin America region as well as a decrease in the percentage of new hires in the North America region as compared to prior year reporting. It also
contributed to an increase in the percentage of turnover in the Latin America region as well as a decrease in the percentage of turnover in the North America region as compared to prior
year reporting. WestRock notes the re-alignment is in response to the acquisition of Grupo Gondi in Mexico during Q1 of FY23, which is intended to grow and support operations in Latin
America.
10 Other criteria included in GRI 401-1 (i.e. number of new employee hires and employee turnover) are excluded.
6
99 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from Appendix II: Third-Party Assurance
Our CEO
About WestRock
Sustainability
at WestRock
Schedule of
Supporting People
Facilities Located in a High-Risk Country of Operation
and Communities as of September 30, 2022
Indicator name Reported value Criteria Reporting boundary
Innovating for
Facilities located in a In 2022, WestRock conducted a global human In 2022, WestRock conducted a global human WestRock includes all core business
Our Customers and
high-risk country of rights risk assessment encompassing all core rights risk assessment encompassing all our core operating facilities, which comprise
Their Customers operation business operating facilities. Of the 306 locations business operating facilities. WestRock elected to headquarter office locations, regional
reviewed, 19 ranked as potentially high-risk. assess human rights risk based on three indices – offices, and manufacturing and
the Human Freedom Index 202111, the 2022 Index converting operations that are
Bettering the Planet of Economic Freedom 12 and the Freedom in the delivering goods and services to
World Index 202213. These indices rate a country’s customers. Certain corporate and
human rights risk using political, economic, and regional offices are not included
Corporate Governance social criteria. For each index, WestRock used the when management deems them to be
most recently available data at the time of the not core operating facilities. This
company’s assessment and a quartile rating system includes IT facilities, small sales
ESG Performance to re-score each country on a scale of 1 to 4. offices and customer locations that
Scores were then aggregated for each country maintain WestRock staff onsite.
Data Table
across the three indices, with possible scores
ranging from 3 (lowest risk) to 12 (highest risk).
This allowed the company to create an operation-
Appendix
specific human rights risk assessment by country.
For WestRock’s risk assessment, the company
External Initiatives
chose a combined rating of 6 or higher to be
considered a high-risk country of operation. This
Membership of
included countries that had a rating in the 4th
Associations quartile (highest risk) in one index or were rated in
the 2nd quartile for all 3 indices.
GRI Index
SASB Index
TCFD Index
UN Sustainable
Development Goals
֡ Third-Party Assurance
11 The Human Freedom Index 2021, co-published by the Cato Institute and the Fraser Institute.
12 The 2022 Index of Economic Freedom, published by the Heritage Foundation.
13 The Freedom in the World Index 2022, published by Freedom House.
7
100 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from Appendix II: Third-Party Assurance
Our CEO
About WestRock
Sustainability
at WestRock
Schedule of
Supporting People
Select Environmental Metrics
and Communities for the yearended September 30, 2022
Indicator name Reported value Units of measure Criteria Reporting Boundary
Innovating for
Materials used by weight or volume for virgin fiber14 The total weight of virgin fiber procured during the reporting WestRock includes all global mill
Our Customers and
period15. Significant contextual information necessary to operations in this calculation as
• US mills 32,049,650 US tons
Their Customers understand how the data have been compiled have been they are responsible for the
• Canada mills 1,452,513 disclosed. conversion of raw materials (wood
• Brazil mills 2,686,545 fiber) into products.
Bettering the Planet
• All mills 36,188,708
Recycled input materials 36 % The percentage of recycled input materials used to manufacture WestRock includes global mill
Corporate Governance used16 the organization’s primaryproducts and services. This is defined operations that specifically
as the total recycled input materials procured divided by the manufacture paperboard and
total of virgin fiber and recycled input materials procured. containerboard17.
ESG Performance Significant contextual information necessary to understand how
Data Table the data have been compiled have been disclosed.
Appendix
External Initiatives
14 WestRock calculates total weight in US tons of virgin wood fiber procurement. Virgin wood fiber is classified by WestRock as a raw material that is renewable, material that is derived
Membership of from plentiful resources that are quickly replenished by ecological cycles or agricultural processes, so that the services provided by these and other linked resources are not endangered
and remain available for the next generation. WestRock sums all mill procurement data that meets the classification of virgin wood fiber for the reporting period.
Associations 15 WestRock reports the total weight of virgin fiber (i.e. virgin wood log and chips) procured during the reporting period. Management has identified that other materials used to produce
their products are immaterial in production. These other materials are additives within the manufacturing process and may include, but are not limited to, materials such as dye, starch,
GRI Index kaolin clay, and calcium carbonate. Water is also a component in WestRock’s primary products; water withdrawn for use in in the manufacturing process is disclosed in the Mill Water
Withdrawal metric described below.
SASB Index 16 To calculate the percentage of recycled materials used by WestRock to manufacture paperboard and containerboard, WestRock first measures the total recycled input materials procured
during the reporting period. Recycled input material is defined as material that replaces virgin materials, which are purchased or obtained from internal or external sources and that are
TCFD Index not by-products and non-product outputs produced by the organization. Recycled input materials can be classified as pre-consumer (i.e., paperboard or containerboard that is
manufactured but does not ultimately make it into a finished good delivered to customers) or post-consumer (i.e., materials that have been used by an end user or consumer, disposed of,
UN Sustainable and diverted from landfills). To calculate total recycled input materials used during the reporting period, WestRock takes the unconverted tonnage (i.e., raw tonnage of recycled fiber
weighed at the time of purchase) of pre-consumer and post-consumer fiber and applies a conversion factor to account for weight lost during the manufacturing process. This final
Development Goals
converted tonnage for pre-consumer and post-consumer materials is summed to calculate total converted recycled input materials procured during the reporting period. For the mills
included in the calculation of recycled materials procured during the reporting period, WestRock also takes the unconverted tonnage of virgin wood fiber and applies a conversion factor
֡ Third-Party Assurance to calculate total converted virgin wood fiber procurement during the reporting period. To calculate the reported value, WestRock divides the total converted recycled input materials
procured during the reporting period by the sum of total converted recycled input materials and converted virgin wood fiber procured during the reporting period.
17 WestRock maintains operational control over a diverse portfolio of mills categorized based on the type of final product manufactured, including consumer mills, corrugated mills, chip
mills, and sawmills. As the percentage of recycled input materials used is specific to mills that procure and consume materials for the purpose of manufacturing paperboard and
containerboard, only consumer and corrugated mills are included in the reporting boundary.
8
101 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from Appendix II: Third-Party Assurance
Our CEO
About WestRock
Sustainability
at WestRock
Schedule of
Supporting People
Select Environmental Metrics
and Communities for the yearended September 30, 2022
Indicator name Reported value Units of measure18 Criteria Reporting Boundary
Innovating for
Energy consumption within the organization GRI Standard 302-1: Energy consumption WestRock selected an organizational
Our Customers and Total energy consumption 321,685,549 MMBtu within the organization19 boundary based on the company’s operational
control. WestRock may exclude converting
Their Customers Total direct energyconsumption20 301,172,281 MMBtu facilities and offices that pay electricity
Total indirect energy consumption21 20,513,268 MMBtu invoices through rental leases, which
Total purchased electricity 25,134,723 MMBtu management has determined are not material
Bettering the Planet Total purchased steam22 802,074 MMBtu to the users of the reported information.
Total electricity sold (4,998,987) MMBtu
Total steam sold (424,542) MMBtu
Corporate Governance Fuel consumption from renewable sources23 187,419,390 MMBtu
Fuel consumption from non-renewable sources22,24 113,752,891 MMBtu
Total energy mix (renewable) 62 %
ESG Performance
Total energy mix (non-renewable) 38 %
Data Table Purchased fuelefficiency 12.72 MMBtu per ton of GRI Standard 302-3: Energy intensity United WestRock includes all global mill operations in
paperboard and States Department of Energy (DOE): Energy this calculation that specifically manufacture
containerboard produced Intensity and Baselining Guidance paperboard and containerboard25.
Appendix
External Initiatives
18 WestRock utilizes a conversion factor of 1 GJ to 0.947817 MMBtu.
Membership of 19 While identified within GRI 302-1 for disclosure, heating and cooling (both purchased and sold) have been identified as not being material to WestRock’s operations and therefore have
been excluded from this table.
Associations
20 Total direct energy consumption is defined as the sum of fuel consumption from renewable sources and fuel consumption from non-renewable sources.
GRI Index 21 Total indirect energy consumption is defined as the sum of purchased electricity and steam less sold electricity and steam.
22 Total purchased steam is exclusive of steam obtained from independently operated joint ventures where the steam is generated through such joint venture’s consumption of WestRock’s
SASB Index production waste (i.e., wood waste and black liquor). The combustion of this production waste is reported within fuel consumption from renewable sources.
23 WestRock includes the following fuel types in fuel consumption from renewable sources: steam generated by biomass, black liquor, wood waste, and rail road ties; WestRock includes the
TCFD Index following fuel types in non-renewable sources: natural gas, coal, oil #2, oil #4, oil #6, shale oil, propane, diesel, and steam generated by fossil fuel.
24 WestRock’s accounting policy indicates that all renewable energy attributes generated by mills during the fiscal year and registered in a renewable energy market’s attribute tracking
UN Sustainable system are treated as sold or available for sale and that WestRock will not be retiring the attributes to realize the underlying environmental benefits. As a result, every MWh associated
with the attributes generated and registered in an attribute tracking system will be treated as if WestRock had purchased that MWh from the grid (“null power”), thereby classifying the
Development Goals
electricity as a non-renewable energy source, though it remains identified as self-generated and not purchased power.
֡ Third-Party Assurance 25 WestRock calculates purchased energy as “primary energy,” which includes the energy consumed by the reporting company as well as the energy required to produce and transport to
WestRock’s mills. Primary energy purchased is calculated using site energy (i.e., energy consumed at each WestRock mill) and applying a multiplier provided by the DOE. Refer to Notes
to Schedule section for the sources of conversion factors used. Purchased energy intensity (also referred to as purchased fuel efficiency) is calculated by dividing purchased energy for
mills by tons of paperboard and containerboard produced. Purchased energy includes purchased fuel (e.g., coal, natural gas), electricity, and steam for WestRock’s mills. Where mills
generate excess electricity that is sold back to the grid or another third party, WestRock deducts the amount of sold electricity against purchased electricity which is permissible
according to the DOE guidance.
9
102 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from Appendix II: Third-Party Assurance
Our CEO
About WestRock
Sustainability
at WestRock
Schedule of
Supporting People
Select Environmental Metrics
and Communities for the yearended September 30, 2022
Indicator name Reported value Criteria Reporting Boundary
Innovating for
Mill water withdrawal by source26 Total waterwithdrawal, presented as the WestRock includes total water intake from all
Our Customers and
total and total by source of surface water, sources (including surface water, ground
Units ofMeasure Mega-liters % of total mill water
Their Customers groundwater, and third-party water, as water, and third-party sources), for all mills
withdrawal
defined in GRI 303-3(a)27. Significant included in the company’s global operations
Total water 567,25828 100% contextual information necessary to that specifically manufacture paperboard and
Bettering the Planet withdrawal understand how the data have been containerboard.
Surface water 334,677 59% compiled have been disclosed.
withdrawal
Corporate Governance
Groundwater 120,491 21%
withdrawal
ESG Performance Third-party water 112,090 20%
Data Table withdrawal
Mill water withdrawalintensity Total water withdrawal for mills divided WestRock includes total water intake from all
by tons of paperboard and sources (including surface water,
Units of Measure Total water withdrawal for mills in mega-liters per ton
Appendix containerboard produced groundwater, and third-party sources), for all
of paperboard and containerboard produced
mills included in the company’s global
External Initiatives Mill water 0.0393 operations that specifically manufacture
withdrawal paperboard and containerboard.
Membership of intensity
Associations
GRI Index
SASB Index
TCFD Index
UN Sustainable
Development Goals
֡ Third-Party Assurance 26 WestRock breaks out water withdrawal into three applicable categories outlined in GRI Standard 303-3: surface water, groundwater, and third-party water. Seawater and produced water
are not applicable to WestRock as WestRock does not withdraw material volumes of seawater and produced water for WestRock's operations.
27 Other criteria included in GRI 303-3 (i.e., water withdrawal from water stressed areas and water withdrawal by dissolved solid content) are excluded.
28 WestRock mill managers primarily rely on the use of company-owned flow meter equipment to capture daily water withdrawal volumes, which are aggregated over the reporting period
for external reporting. As recommended by management, mills calibrate flow meters regularly to support the accurate measurement of water withdrawal volumes.
10
103 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from Appendix II: Third-Party Assurance
Our CEO
About WestRock
Sustainability
at WestRock
Schedule of
Supporting People
Select Environmental Metrics
and Communities for the year ended September 30, 2022
Indicator name Reported value Units of measure Criteria Reporting Boundary
Innovating for
Scope 1 (Direct) 6,273,921 Metric tonnes carbon GRI Standard 305-1: Energy Direct–Scope 1 emissions WestRock selected an
Our Customers and
Greenhouse Gas (GHG) dioxide equivalents (MT The Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol: A Corporate organizational boundary based on
Their Customers Emissions29,30 CO2e) Accounting and Reporting Standard as amended by the the company’s operational
GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance control. WestRock may exclude
converting facilities and offices
Bettering the Planet Scope 2 (Indirect) GHG 2,566,943 MT CO2e GRI Standard 305-2: Energy Indirect–Scope 2 that pay electricity invoices
Emissions, market-based emissions through rental leases, which
method31,32,33 The GHG Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and management has determined are
Corporate Governance Reporting Standard as amended by the GHG Protocol not material to the users of the
Scope 2 Guidance reported information.
ESG Performance GHG Emissions Intensity34 0.56 MT CO2e per ton of GRI 305-4: GHG emissions intensity WestRockincludes total GHG
paperboard and emissions from all facilities
Data Table
containerboard produced included in the company’s global
operations that specifically
manufacture paperboard and
Appendix
containerboard.
External Initiatives
Membership of 29 GHG emissions – Scope 1 includes natural gas, coal, oil #2, oil #4, oil #6, shale oil, propane, diesel and biogenic emissions for CH4 and N2O; gases included in the reporting boundary are
Associations
CO2, CH4 and N2O. The majority of the reported CO2e emissions are from CO2 with the remainder being composed of CH4 and N2O, noting that HFCs, PFCs, SF6 and NF3 are not material to
the Company's emissions.
GRI Index 30 WestRock owns and operates landfills which are located onsite or in close proximity to WestRock’s paper mills. EPA calculation methodologies (and other publicly available estimation
methodologies) may not be representative of actual fugitive methane emissions from pulp and paper industry landfills. As such, management has elected to exclude fugitive methane
emissions from company-owned landfills from its reporting boundary, which is permissible according to The GHG Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard.
SASB Index
31WestRock tracks energy consumption data for sites within its reporting boundary, such as utility invoices or metering. Where actual consumption data is not available or cannot be
TCFD Index obtained in a timely manner, WestRock estimates consumption using other available data, such as previous consumption at the site or average energy consumption at similar sites, to
provide the most complete inventory possible. To calculate Scope 1 and Scope 2 (MBM) GHG emissions, WestRock multiplies activity-level data by the emissions factors indicated in the
notes section titled “Sources of emissions factors and global warming potentials.”
UN Sustainable
32 For some WestRock owned mills, renewable energy attributes are generated from the stationary combustion of biofuels. Where these attributes are unbundled and registered in an
Development Goals energy market’s attribute tracking system, the company adjusts its Scope 2 MBM emissions as recommended by the GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance by treating the underlying power
associated with the attributes as if it were purchased from the grid and multiplying the power by the corresponding emissions factors.
֡ Third-Party Assurance 33 GHG emissions – Scope 2 indirect emissions includes the following gases: CO2, CH4and N2O in the reporting boundary. The majority of the reported CO2e emissions are from CO2 with the
remainder being composed of CH4 and N2O, noting that HFCs, PFCs, SF6 and NF3 are not material to the Company's emissions.
34 WestRock calculates emissions intensity as the total Scope 1 emissions from combustion sources from mills that manufacture paperboard and containerboard (i.e., excluding fugitive
methane emissions from company-owned landfills) and total Scope 2 MBM emissions from mills that manufacture paperboard and containerboard divided by tons of paperboard and
containerboard produced.
11
104 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from Appendix II: Third-Party Assurance
Our CEO
About WestRock
Sustainability
at WestRock
Schedule of
Supporting People
Select Environmental Metrics
and Communities for the year ended September 30, 2022
Indicator name Reported value Units of measure Criteria Reporting Boundary
Innovating for
Our Customers and
Biogenic CO2 18,444,649 MT CO2 The GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and WestRock selected an
emissions35 Reporting Standard and the GHG Protocol Scope 2 organizational boundary based on
Their Customers Guidance the company’s operational control.
GRI Standard 305-1: Energy Direct – Scope 1 WestRock may exclude converting
emissions facilities and offices that pay
Bettering the Planet electricity invoices through rental
GRI Standard 305-2: Energy Indirect – Scope 2
leases, which management has
emissions
determined are not material to the
Corporate Governance users of the reported information.
ESG Performance
Data Table
Appendix
External Initiatives
Membership of
Associations
GRI Index
SASB Index
TCFD Index
UN Sustainable
Development Goals
֡ Third-Party Assurance
35 WestRock’s reported biogenic CO2 emissions include the CO2 portion of biogenic emissions from both direct sources (Scope 1) and indirect sources (Scope 2) of emissions. Direct biogenic
emissions consisted of 18,352,696 mtCO2 while indirect biogenic emissions consisted of 91,953 mtCO2, totaling 18,444,649 mtCO2.
12
105 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from Appendix II: Third-Party Assurance
Our CEO
About WestRock
Sustainability
at WestRock
Notes to Schedules
Supporting People
and Communities Note on sources of emissions factors and global warming potentials:
Innovating for Indicator name Emissions factors Global warmingpotentials
Our Customers and GHG emissions–Scope 1 Federal Register Environmental Protection Agency; 40 CFR Part 98; e-CFR. Table C-1, Table C-2 (as 2014 IPCC Fifth Assessment
amended at 81 FR 89252, Dec. 9, 2016), Table AA-1 (78 FR 71965, Nov. 29, 2013) Report
Their Customers
World Resources Institute (2015) – Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol tool for stationary combustion.
Version 4.1.
Bettering the Planet 2021 U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Emission Factors for Greenhous Gas Inventories
GHG emissions–Scope 2 The Emissions & Generation ResourceIntegrated Database (eGRID) 2020
Corporate Governance (market-based) 2022 Edison Electric Institute (EEI) Electric Company Carbon Emissions and Electricity Mix
Reporting Database for Corporate Customers
2020 National Inventory Report 1990-2020: Greenhouse Gas Sources and Sinks in Canada
ESG Performance 2022 factors, International Energy Agency Data Services
Data Table Federal Register Environmental Protection Agency; 40 CFR Part 98; e-CFR. Table C-1, Table C-2 (as
amended at 81 FR 89252, Dec. 9, 2016), Table AA-1 (78 FR 71965, Nov. 29, 2013)
2021 Data Year RE-DISS Residual Mix Emissions Rates for Europe
Appendix
2021 UK Government GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting
External Initiatives 2022 Australian Government Department of Industry, Science, Energy and Resources National
Greenhouse Accounts Factors
Membership of Brazil Ministry of Mines and Energy Summary Report 2021 (Reference year 2020)
Associations Netherlands Powerhouse Utility-specific Factor 2021
GRI Index
SASB Index
TCFD Index
UN Sustainable
Development Goals
֡ Third-Party Assurance
13
106 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
A Message from Appendix II: Third-Party Assurance
Our CEO
About WestRock
Sustainability
at WestRock
Note on sources of conversion factors:
Supporting People
and Communities
Indicator Conversion factors
Total energy consumption Federal Register Environmental Protection Agency; 40 CFR Part 98; e-CFR. Table C-1, Table C-2 (as amended
Innovating for Total direct energy consumption at 81 FR 89252, Dec. 9, 2016), Table AA-1 (78 FR 71965, Nov. 29, 2013)
Our Customers and Fuel consumption from non-renewable sources
Their Customers Total purchased electricity US Energy Information Administration (EIA) Unit Energy Conversion Calculator
Total electricity sold
Bettering the Planet Total purchased steam EnergyStar Steam Unit Conversion Reference
Total steam sold
Corporate Governance Fuelconsumption from renewable sources US EIA Renewable Energy Annual Trends Table 2009
ESG Performance Note on Non-financial Reporting:
Data Table
Non-financial information is subject to measurement uncertainties resulting from limitations inherent in the nature and the methods used for
determining such data. The selection of different but acceptable measurement techniques can result in materially different measurements. The
Appendix precision of different measurements techniques may also vary.
External Initiatives
Membership of
Associations
GRI Index
SASB Index
TCFD Index
UN Sustainable
Development Goals
֡ Third-Party Assurance
14
107 WestRock 2022 Sustainability Report
