Purpose.
Driven.
2 0 2 1
CORPORATE
RESPONSIBILITY
REPORT
TA B L E OF CON T EN T S
Purpose. Driven.
3 A Letter from our President, Chief Executive Officer &
Chair of the Board
4 About West
5 Notable Awards & External Organizations
6 Materiality Assessment
7 Corporate Sustainability Initiative — UNGC Alignment
Purpose. Planet.
8 Environment
Purpose. People.
10 Health & Safety
12 Diversity & Inclusion
15 Philanthropy
Purpose. Governance.
17 Quality
19 Compliance & Ethics
21 Enterprise Risk Management — Business Continuity & Cybersecurity
23 GRI Index
Purpose. Driven.
A Letter From Our President, Chief Executive Officer & Chair of the Board
At West, we are driven by our purpose to improve Newsweek in 2021. Our progress has spurred us to revenue. While many factors have gone into this “ At West, we are driven by
patient lives. We do this by supporting our customers set even more ambitious and comprehensive goals and success, I credit our commitment to ESG among
our purpose to improve
by containing and delivering their life-enhancing to empower all our team members to engage more them. Focusing on building a more diverse team,
patient lives. We do this by
and life-saving injectable medicines. We know that fully in helping us to achieve them. To accomplish putting product quality at center stage, operating
to fulfill this purpose effectively, we must consider this, we implemented several beneficial changes with integrity, giving back to our communities, supporting our customers
our broader corporate responsibilities to the wide in 2021, including establishing a new ESG Steering managing our environmental footprint and caring
by containing and delivering
range of stakeholders we serve, starting with the end Committee, which includes representatives from for the safety of our team members makes for a
users of our products and extending all the way to across our business who are tasked with bringing better-performing business now and into the future. their life-enhancing
the communities in which we operate. We continue the voice of their stakeholders to the conversation
As a global business community, we have a number and life-saving injectable
and championing the strategy across their teams.
to evolve and enhance our Corporate Responsibility
of challenges on the horizon. As noted at the COP
medicines.”
(CR) strategy and consistent with a broader focus and
Our ESG goals currently remain organized under 26 United Nations Climate Change Conference last
trends in the marketplace, have begun to transform
the previously established pillars. However, through year, businesses need to do their part to step up and
our CR strategy into an over-arching Environmental,
an iterative, data-driven process with our ESG lead efforts to decarbonize our global economy with
Social and Governance (ESG) strategy. Through our ESG
Steering Committee and senior leadership, we more environmentally friendly business practices.
strategy, we seek to have an even greater impact than
selected six priorities of focus that directly link to our
I am pleased that West is working in all these areas
we do today, and we are working to further embed our
corporate mission, vision and values. The priorities
already and having an impact. However, we are also
ESG priorities into every aspect our business strategy.
are: Responsible Supply Chain; Talent Attraction;
keenly aware that there is more work to be done. With
Retention and Engagement; Waste in Operational
In 2017, we first formalized our ESG (then CR) strategy,
the changes we have made to further align our ESG
Processes; R&D for the Environment and Climate
setting five-year environmental sustainability goals,
priorities to West’s long-term strategy, I am confident
Strategy. Moving forward, we plan to further enhance
along with quantitative and qualitative targets for the
we will continue to see good progress in this mission-
and refine our strategy to address these areas of
six pillars of that strategy that emerged from our initial critical area of our business well into the future.
focus, including a refined set of new key performance
materiality analysis: Diversity and Inclusion; Quality;
indicators targeted to impact these new priorities. Thank you,
Compliance and Ethics; Philanthropy; Environmental
Sustainability; and Health and Safety. In exceeding The advancement of our ESG goals over the five
some of these goals ahead of schedule, we were years has been at a time when we have seen our
recognized as a top ESG performer by Barron’s and business grow from $1.59 to $2.83 billion in annual Eric M. Green
3
PURPOSE. DRIVEN.
About West
West Facts
West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc. is a leading An integral part of the healthcare industry, West Just as we are dedicated to helping to improve patient ~45 billion
focuses on providing high-quality components and lives, we are also dedicated to sustainability and
provider of innovative, high-quality injectable
components shipped — touching billions of patients
solutions on a global scale to meet the exacting improving the health and prosperity of the communities
solutions and services. As a trusted partner to
biocompatibility requirements of drugs that our in which we live and work. West makes significant
established and emerging drug developers,
customers have developed to treat patients. West contributions to nonprofit organizations and actively 10,000+
West helps ensure the safe, effective excels in manufacturing, scientific and technical encourages and supports employee volunteerism.
team members committed to our purpose
expertise and management. At the manufacturing We are fortunate to have a broad spectrum of team
containment and delivery of life-saving and
level, this means producing clean, sterile, high- members from all walks of life and backgrounds.
life-enhancing medicines for patients. With
50 / 20 / 25
quality components to minimize disruptions to Our strong belief in a culture of mutual respect
approximately 10,000 team members across
the supply chain and bringing safe, effective drug celebrates differences — and similarities — among
50 global locations in 20 countries with
50 sites worldwide, West helps support products to market — and to the patient — quickly all stakeholders, both inside and outside our walls. 25 manufacturing sites
and efficiently. In addition to supplying our customers
our customers by delivering over 45 billion
Headquartered in Exton, Pennsylvania, and in
with critical packaging and drug delivery products for
components and devices each year. business for nearly a century, West in its fiscal year $2 .83B
their injectable medicines, we also offer a range of
2021 generated $2.83 billion in net sales. West is
solutions that draw upon our deep understanding of in 2021 Net Sales
traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE: WST)
integrated containment and delivery systems, analytical
and is included on the Standard & Poor’s 500 index.
testing, device manufacturing and assembly, and
regulatory submission and approval requirements.
Having West’s ESG strategy aligned with our Core Values of Passion
for Customers, Leadership in Quality and One West Team is key to
the ongoing success of our strategy, and integral to supporting our
mission of improving patient lives.
4
PURPOSE. DRIVEN.
Awards & External Organizations
2021 West Awards External Organizational Involvement
West was honored to be recognized by a number of organizations and industry associations throughout West is an active member of many industry, trade and other collaborative organizations, which promotes
2021. These awards are a testament to West’s commitment to supporting our communities, caring for our accountability, transparency in reporting, and helps us stay connected and engaged with others in the industry.
environment, offering innovative products, and nurturing a culture of diversity and inclusion.
Soaring 76 Award Excellence in Fill Finish
Philadelphia Business Journal Asia Pacific Vaccine Excellence Awards
Best Technologies Innovation Award —
2021 Safety Achievement Award
Puerto Rico Manufacturers Association NovaGuard SA Pro Safety System
Interphex
Top 100 Most Sustainable
Best Bioprocessing Supplier Award:
Companies 2021
Fill-Finish
Barron’s
Korea Bioprocessing Excellence Award
Corporate Social Responsibility
Best Talent Strategy
Silver Stevie Award
Irish Medtech Awards
Most Valuable Response Corporate Social Responsibility
to the Pandemic Programme of the Year
Bronze Stevie Award Pharma Industry Awards
5
PURPOSE. DRIVEN.
Materiality Assessment
An Evolution to Being More Purpose Driven
In 2018, West conducted our first materiality Conducting this thorough analysis has helped drive Out of this assessment, and using these guiding THE SIX PRIORITY
our ESG strategy, better identify where to focus our principles, the Committee came up with the priority
assessment to gain insight into which ESG ESG TOPICS INCLUDE:
internal resources, and set the current 2019 – 2023 topics where they feel we should focus most of our
topics were the most top-of-mind for our
5-year goals that we are striving to achieve. efforts, and where we can have the greatest impact
stakeholders. Through a survey of relevant Environment
over the next 3 – 5 years.
The data from the 2020 assessment provided us
internal stakeholders and customers, we
with 44 material topics. While each of these topics are While we will continue to strive towards achieving 1. Climate Strategy
were able to analyze the issues most relevant
important to West, it has become evident that we our current 2023 goals, we will also be working to
to our business growth and customers’ are not able to make a significant impact on this many build our longer-term ESG strategy and goals, based
2. R&D for the Environment
topics without focusing on the most important. on these newly identified priorities. The Committee
goals. To achieve this, we asked respondents
also underscored the importance of moving from a
when taking the survey to assign value Therefore, in 2021 we assembled a cross-functional 3. W aste in Operational
bolt-on ESG strategy, to one that is fully integrated
Processes
ESG Steering Committee, with the goal of identifying
with relevance to the company in mind, as
into our business processes and corporate strategy,
what our long-term ESG strategy should look like.
opposed to which were the greatest issues and aligned with our Mission, Vision and Values.
An important outcome of this Committee is to set Social (through a D&I lens)
facing the world. achievable goals and focus areas within that strategy As we approach our 100-year anniversary in
where we know we’ll be able to make a larger impact 2023, we realize that we must continue to evolve 4. Talent Attraction
In 2020, we repeated this process to assess how the
in a shorter amount of time. our ESG strategy and be ambitious, innovative
ESG landscape had shifted in the past few years.
leaders in this area — enabling West to provide 5. Retention and Engagement
The Committee assessed the 44 topics, using
The 2020 materiality assessment results showed that
a better world for future generations, and look
the processes of risk assessment, opportunity
both internal and external stakeholders remained
forward to our next 100 years in business.
analysis, leadership maturity model, and cost/
mostly in agreement with the overall importance
Governance
benefit analysis. They looked at each of these topics
of the listed material issues to West’s operations.
through the lens of our key guiding principles,
6. Responsible Supply Chain
which include Customers, Philanthropy, Quality,
Safety, Senior Leadership and Transparency.
6
PURPOSE. DRIVEN.
Corporate Sustainability Initiative
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals
Corporate sustainability starts with a value We are committed to doing our part to create a brighter Our five-year corporate responsibility goals, running
future and have aligned with the United Nations Global from 2019 – 2023, align with our Company’s strategy
system and a principles-based approach to
Compact and their 17 Sustainable Development Goals. as well as an alignment with the U.N. Sustainable
doing business. This means operating in ways
By incorporating these goals into our strategies, policies Development Goals.
that meet fundamental responsibilities in the
and procedures, and establishing a culture of integrity,
areas of human rights, labor, environment and we are not only upholding our basic responsibilities
to people and the planet, but also setting the stage for
anti-corruption. As a responsible Company, we
long-term success.
enact the same values and principles wherever
we have a presence.
7
PURPOSE. PLANET.
Environment
As a company that is by the side of our Our Sustainability Program is designed to target • Although 2021 saw a 6.2% increase in the overall
reductions in areas where we feel we can make the energy consumption compared to 2020, there was an
customers, team members, the patients
improvement of 1.9% in energy intensity ratio.
greatest impact: CO2 emissions, waste and increased
we serve and the communities in which
recycling, as well as energy and water usage. 2021 • Similar to energy, higher production demand resulted
we live and work, we are also driven to continued to demand historic growth in production for in an increase of our overall water usage, however,
West, and although this production did require a higher our water intensity factor had a 4.46% improvement
be by the side of our planet. Caring for
over prior year, meaning we are using less water for
overall output in energy and water usage, we continued
our environment is inherent in all we each product produced.
to improve in our efficiencies, resulting in a higher
do, ensuring that we use resources in a output of product per unit of energy and water used. • West’s six Contract Manufacturing sites recycled
“ I’m passionate about caring
97% of their total waste in 2021.
for our environment and am
sustainable manner and believing that
• While overall energy output increased because of the
• Global waste to landfill for all West manufacturing proud to work for a company
increase in production to meet the healthcare demand,
we have an obligation to contribute to
sites continues to improve, with 85% of global waste that shares the same ambitions,
our 2023 Energy Intensity Goal realized a 10.18%
a healthier world. reduction percentage — an improvement from 8.44% diverted from landfill, up from 77% the prior year. as we work to continuously
in 2020, and well on our way to achieving our 2023 improve our sustainable business
goal of 15%. This means that we are realizing a higher practices to create a better
output of product per unit of energy consumed.
world for today’s generation
and the next.”
Brianna McFadden
Associate Analyst, ESG
Alignment with UNGC Sustainable Development Goals
8
Environment
PURPOSE. PLANET.
West was honored to be recognized by a number of Principles, aligning with their vision for excellence in safety, Cumulative Energy Intensity Reduction
16%
organizations throughout 2021, which is a testament to environmental, and social outcomes for the whole of
14%
West’s commitment to caring for our environment. Some the global pharmaceutical and healthcare supply chain.
12%
of these accolades include being named as one of Barron’s 10%
Looking ahead, West will continue to focus on renewable 10.18%
Top 100 Most Sustainable Companies, as well as receiving 8%
8.44%
energy opportunities and the utilization of green energy 6%
a Silver Stevie Award for Corporate Social Responsibility.
electricity. We are in the process of conducting a global energy 4%
In addition, we were very pleased to maintain MSCI’s 4.76%
2%
analysis to identify renewable opportunities in every market
highest ESG fund rating of AAA — which places West as 0.00%
0%
which we operate. We are also working on an updated set
a leader within the top 5% of the companies within their 2018 2019 2020 2021
of environmental targets with a focus on energy and waste,
healthcare equipment and supplies industry category.
as well as an increased focus on R&D for the environment,
West is a signatory to the Task Force on Climate-related as climate change and waste in our operational processes
Financial Disclosures (TCFD), which affirms our commitment have become priority focus areas within our ESG Strategy.
Annual Water Intensity Ratio
to fiscal transparency, as well as being a leader in addressing 10
the current climate emergency. In addition, West is a proud 8
6
member and active participant with the Pharmaceutical 6.53 6.48
6.18
6.10
4
Supply Chain Initiative (PCSI) and is a signatory of the PSCI
2
0
2018 2019 2020 2021
Landfill Diversion / Recycling Rate %
100.0%
80.0%
2023 GOALS (USING 2018 AS THE BASELINE) 84.5%
60.0% 77.4%
40.0%
52.0%
43.0%
20.0%
Reduce Energy Reduce Absolute Reduce Water Reduce Waste-to-
0.0%
Intensity by 15% Emissions by 10% Intensity by 10% Landfill by 90%
2018 2019 2020 2021
9
PURPOSE. PEOPLE.
Health & Safety
At West, we believe in maintaining a We believe that caring for our team members’ health To help drive individual accountability, in 2021 we
not only involves their physical health but focuses continued to hold our annual global Safety Week, which
healthy and safe workplace and cultivating
on their mental wellbeing as well. To that end, we saw high engagement and participation at our sites.
a culture of safety where every team
globalized our Employee Assistance Program, held a Although safety is a focus all year long, this dedicated
member has a shared responsibility for West Wellness Week that coincided with World Mental week gave the opportunity to target the key safety-
Health Day in October, and launched a Living Well @ related topic of Hazard Identification and Action, as
and is engaged in safety.
West campaign, all to ensure our team members and well as Emergency Preparedness and Safety at Home.
their families have access to mental health educational
Through the start of the pandemic and in 2021, our
resources, and a wide variety of free and confidential
number one priority has been the health and safety of
mental health services. We also held numerous
our team members and providing a work environment
seminars and provided access to trainings about mental
that reduces the risks of COVID-19 transmission. Our
wellbeing, dealing with stress and similar topics.
Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) Team and other
“Ourfocusonhazardidentification,
Pandemic Management Teams continued to play a
Throughout the year, we continued in our planned and our See.Do.Say. Something
pivotal role in protecting our team members, meeting
initiatives around a proactive focus on safety, hazard mindset, helps build a strong
on a weekly basis to ensure close management
identification and leading indicators, highlighted culture of safety, decreases the
of all sites globally. Because of this oversight and
by our ongoing See Something. Do Something. Say probability of accidents occurring
the strict safety protocols in place, West was able to
Something. campaign, established during our annual inthefirstplace,andachievesour
maintain continued operations at all our global
Safety Week held in September. This proactive ultimate goal of all team members
manufacturing sites.
focus and team member engagement resulted in an going home safely at the end
improved year-over-year Recordable Incident Rate (RIR), of their day.”
with the final two months of 2021 representing the
Sharon Escalera
lowest RIR in our history of tracking this safety metric.
Director, HSE, CM & Med Device
10
Health & Safety
PURPOSE. PEOPLE.
Several additional 2021 highlights and focus areas included: As we continue to adapt to this ever-changing environment,
our first priority remains the same and will not change — the
• Developed a new HSE Dashboard — a global standard visual
health and safety of our team members. We will continue to
indication of progress on all HSE initiatives and metrics visibly
engage our team members in safety-related programs, focus
available within our manufacturing sites.
on hazard identification and other preventative measures, and
• Developed a Lean Daily Management System (LDMS) with
digitize our HSE platforms and management systems, with
safety as a topic of daily meetings for team members at all levels
the goal of further reducing workplace incidents and enabling
at our manufacturing sites.
our team members to go home safely at the end of their day.
• Executed the rollout of a West Alert System — a platform
used to alert team members, on company provided or personal
devices, of emergency situations or site closures.
• Launched our quarterly Safety Impact Award, to recognize
an individual or team who has made a measurable impact on a
safety process or procedure or a significant risk mitigation.
2021 HIGHLIGHTS
Zero safety recordable incidents Puerto Rico Manufacturers Bodmin, UK site celebrated Kovin, Serbia site received
in 2021 at our sites in QingPu, Association awarded West’s 7 years with zero recordable National Safety Award for Best
China; Kovin, Serbia; Stolberg, Cidra, PR site with the Safety incidents Company in Serbia, presented
Germany; Cidra, Puerto Rico; Achievement Award by the Ministry of Labor,
Upper Darby, Pennsylvania; Employment and Social Affairs
Bodmin, England; Sri City, India by the Republic of Serbia
11
PURPOSE. PEOPLE.
Diversity & Inclusion
West’s Pledge
As West nears its 100th anniversary, we experiences and all have a voice here. We learn and We know that partnering with suppliers who
Our team members are
grow through the wide diversity of thoughts and ideas. reflect the diversity and demographics of the
reaffirm our longstanding commitment to located across the world,
markets we serve makes clear business sense,
the employee experience, diversity and Throughout the year, West’s Chief Executive Officer with varying life, educational,
while also helping to deliver on our promise of
and executive leadership team keep a steady focus cultural and family
inclusion (EXDI), inherent in our core value
creating a positive social impact on our world.
on EXDI objectives, including increasing the diversity
experiences and all have
of One West Team.
of West’s leadership. West’s Board of Directors is West’s philanthropic support reflects our commitment
a voice here. We learn
comprised of 30% women. On December 31, 2021, to EXDI. In 2021, the pandemic continued to create
EXDI benefits the entire workforce and supports the and grow through the
women and/or U.S. minorities made up 55% of challenges for many in our communities, presenting
overall success of our business. West does not tolerate wide diversity of thoughts
West’s Executive Team, a number that increased to new opportunities to support those in need around the
discrimination or harassment of any team member,
and ideas.
64% as of June 1, 2022. In 2021, using an outside world. Given the unrest and violence against our Asian
customer or service provider because of age, race,
consulting firm, we conducted senior leadership communities, Asian Americans Advancing Justice was
color, religion, sex, ancestry, national origin, military
interviews to further refine our Employee Experience, one of our focus charities. The donation of ventilators to
service or application, marital status, citizenship status,
Diversity & Inclusion (EXDI) Strategy. A CEO-led clinics in India sustained the lives of COVID-19 patients
physical or mental disability, genetic information,
Inclusion Council was formed to support the and provided hope to their families and we funded
sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, or
Employee Business Resource Group strategy and global COVID-19 efforts through support of the World
other protected characteristic under applicable laws.
metrics and a draft scorecard were developed to Health Organization and the United Nations. Our
We’ve created safe and inclusive environments that
guide action and track the progress of our efforts. commitment to the LGBTQ+ community was strong
allow all team members to bring their best selves to
through support for the Cancer Support Community
work. Our team members are located across the world, A newly identified priority is enhancing and
of Greater Philadelphia, an organization offering free
with varying life, educational, cultural and family renewing our efforts to create a more diverse
programs for diverse and under resourced LGBTQ+,
supply chain, helping to ensure we are partnering
bilingual and minority communities impacted by cancer.
with suppliers whose businesses are owned
and managed by members of diverse groups.
Alignment with UNGC Sustainable Development Goals
12
Diversity & Inclusion
PURPOSE. PEOPLE.
Recruiting & Retaining Top Talent Team Member Experience
Truly diverse workplaces hire team members who represent The One West team is a diverse population from around the globe,
a wide range of gender identities, sexual orientations, races, with different life, educational and cultural experiences. We come
nationalities, ages, and languages spoken. together, bringing our own unique perspectives and a shared vision
of a healthier world.
Diversity is a major focus of our recruiting strategy, with success measures
implemented to ensure we are attracting and hiring diverse talent.
We understand that to help retain these talented team members, we must
“ Diversity encompasses By recruiting and retaining diverse team members at all levels, we
continue embedding D&I strategies across the entire Employee Experience.
our differences and the benefit from creative problem-solving and smarter decision-making.
Revitalization of our Employee Business Resource Groups (EBRGs) is underway.
similarities that we share.
Today, women and/or U.S. underrepresented minorities comprise
The groups continue to connect team members around the globe, expanding
It is both that brings us
43% of West’s senior leadership team. Our U.S. workforce is comprised
networks and cultivating career growth. Our EBRG structure has three
together as One West Team,
of 45% from minority backgrounds and 37% of our global team members
EBRGs — Women’s Initiatives Network (WIN), Multinational Organization
and helps spark innovation,
are female. Throughout 2021 we partnered with several organizations
Supporting an Inclusive Culture (MOSAIC), and Veterans & Allies Leading
fuel productivity, and drive
to support our diversity in recruiting goals, including a partnership
for Organizational Results (VALOR). An expanded Diversity Council and a
collaboration. We are striving
with Disability Solutions to offer Fireside Chat and HR/Manager webinars
fourth EBRG will launch in 2022. Furthermore, as noted above, Attraction and
to create an environment
to increase disability awareness and support diversity recruitment.
Retention of Talent, with a focus on Diversity, Equity and Inclusion, has been
where our team members
identified as priority area in our transformed ESG strategy moving forward.
can bring their authentic
selves to work each day and
Our goal is to continue to evolve as a diverse, equitable, and inclusive workplace.
have exceptional experiences
We will work hard to support EXDI and promote more inclusive practices
here at West — given their
throughout the organization, creating a safe and welcoming environment for
diversity.”
current team members, and for those talented candidates we seek to attract.
Maureen Hunter
Sr. Director, Diversity & Inclusion
and Employee Experience
13
Diversity & Inclusion
PURPOSE. PEOPLE.
Senior Leadership at West Race & Ethnicity at West
43% 45%
of senior leaders at West are women and minorities. of West’s employees in the U.S. represent traditionally
underrepresented minority groups.
Women at West 28%
of executive roles in the U.S. are held by traditionally
37% underrepresented minority groups.
of our global team members are female.
54%
36% of all new hires within the U.S. came from a
minority background.
of STEM roles worldwide are held by women.
45%
of our total U.S. workforce comes from
minority backgrounds.
54 20 38% 10,000+ 2,402 1,772
DIFFERENT LANGUAGES COUNTRIES PEOPLE MANAGERS TEAM MEMBERS WORLDWIDE ADVANCED DEGREES STEM DEGREES
spoken by West team members with West presence are female or U.S. underrepresented 12% APAC, 42% EMEA, held by West team members held by West team members
minority groups 43% North America,
3% South America
PURPOSE. PEOPLE.
Philanthropy
Our One West Team shares a defining Since our beginnings almost 100 years ago, West In this uniquely challenging time, our One West Team
has fostered a culture of giving to support our team had unwavering commitment to serving our
characteristic — the commitment and
members and the communities in which they live and communities and continued to make direct and
desire to put people first — which anchors
work. West targets philanthropic activities and local immediate impacts to help families in need.
our purpose of improving patient lives charities through a charitable giving framework that
We saw significant increases in team member donations
is separated into three tiers:
around the globe. Philanthropy runs
in 2021. Total team member giving increased by 72%
deep through West’s culture, with our • Corporate Giving through direct charitable gifts made from 2020, and personal donations (non-campaign)
by West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc. This giving is
increased by 175%. Another example where our team
team members organizing and executing
“ I’m proud to work for a
centered on hospitals and healthcare, education —
members came together to help others was our Annual
ways to make generous donations of with a current focus on STEM (Science, Technology, company that so strongly
Food Drive, as charities and food banks around the
Engineering and Math), people with disabilities and supports giving back to our
both time and resources to contribute world continued to experience increased demand for
with an increasing and renewed focus on ensuring communities. It creates such
life sustaining supplies. Team member donations
to a healthier world. access to healthcare and ESG-related issues. a positive work environment
to our Annual Food Drive increased by 56% over the
• The Herman O. West Foundation, an independently when I can work together with
prior year.
managed 501(c)(3) entity, which awards scholarships, my fellow team members to
employee matching gifts and West’s Employee make such a positive impact
Emergency Fund.
on the lives of others within
• And West without Borders*, our team member-led my local community.”
giving program that has raised millions of dollars since
its inception in 2004. This includes our global annual Eecho Wang
Specialist, Communications, Asia Pacific
team member giving campaigns, the Annual Food Drive,
global volunteerism, and team member donations into
the West Employee Emergency Fund.
Alignment with UNGC Sustainable Development Goals
15
* West without Borders is not affiliated with Doctors Without Borders®, which is a
registered service mark of Bureau International de Médecins Sans Frontières.
Philanthropy
PURPOSE. PEOPLE.
Throughout the pandemic, West has been by the side of our We strive to be inclusive and have initiated larger partnerships
communities to combat the consequences of the virus. In 2021, with diverse and inclusive organizations, such as the Boys &
Corporate and Foundation giving reached over $3 million, Girls Clubs of America, the Red Cross, and the National Cancer
including $200k to the World Health Organization’s Just Breathe Comprehensive Network. We also value alternate views and
India COVID-19 relief, and $50k to Philabundance to combat perspectives, through the support of organizations focused
food insecurity resulting from virtual schooling. on inclusion like the Cancer Support Community of Greater
Philadelphia and their support of the LGBTQ community, and
In 2021, the Herman O. West Foundation awarded 20
addressing racial discord and people in crisis, such as the
scholarships to the children/dependents of team members
Asian Americans Advancing Justice and Child Crisis Arizona.
in the United States, as well as 109 grants to team members
in need through our Employee Emergency Fund. We are grateful for our One West Team and the humbling
generosity and dedication shown to ensure that our
Our One West Team has continued to serve as leaders within
philanthropic programs continue to thrive, and we look forward
our communities. We have provided greater access to healthcare
to continuing to support and nurture our philanthropic
with our contributions to Bumbleance in Dublin, Ireland,
spirit as we head into our centennial celebration year in 2023.
and to the Fox Chase Cancer Center’s mobile screening vehicle.
2021 HIGHLIGHTS
30,000 3,600 72% 109
pounds of food collected Volunteer Hours increase in total employee Employee Emergency Fund
(56% increase from 2020) giving over 2020 grants to our team members
in need
16
PURPOSE. GOVERNANCE.
Quality
At West, we are committed to This focus on quality includes excellence in This tremendous growth required flexibility and
manufacturing, scientific and technical expertise, and innovative thinking, and the Quality team initiated
safeguarding the health and safety of the
management. At the manufacturing level, this means several actions to ensure that the business maintained
billions of patients who use our products
producing clean, sterile, high-quality components its state of compliance and met our customer
every year. This commitment is anchored designed to minimize disruption to the supply chain requirements:
and to deliver safe, effective drug product to the
in our Core Value of Leadership in Quality,
• Accelerated product transfers to leverage network
market — and to the patient, quickly and efficiently.
capacity
which ensures we never compromise on
Since the beginning of the pandemic, we continued to • Initiated qualification of new equipment, warehouse
quality, because we know that patients
“ At West, our Core Value of
see an increase in demand for our products. To support and building expansions
Leadership in Quality and our
are counting on us. This Patient First
this demand, West’s capital investments included
• Added staff to support expanded operations
Patient First Focus is at the
Focus helps our team remain focused on 13 site expansions, 30 facility modifications and over
• Provided reliable business support in our Quality heart of everything we do,
400 new pieces of equipment, all while keeping pace
quality, as they know what they do every Lab testing, which saw a 28% increase in sample ensuring that every component
with growing demand.
volume over previous year we produce is made right
day will impact the life of a patient. This
thefirsttime,becausewe
connection to the patient helps support
know that billions of patients
our ‘Every Dose, Every Time — 100% are counting on us.”
Commitment’ mindset.
Stephan Selke
VP, Operations, Eschweiler, Germany
Alignment with UNGC Sustainable Development Goals
17
Quality
PURPOSE. GOVERNANCE.
Elastomer Manufacturer-Related Defects
We continued to focus on reducing Cost of Poor Quality During our Annual Global Quality Week, the theme
QUALITY 1.40%
A PATIENT FIRST (COPQ), a key metric in monitoring our process quality “Right First Time” or RFT reinforced that RFT is a behavior
FOCUS. 1.20%
which captures scrap, rejects, rework, customer returns/ and approach to ensure that processes are capable of
1.00%
credits, and yield losses. The team continued to drive meeting West and our customers’ requirements. This
0.80%
COPQ initiatives to decrease the overall level of COPQ mindset is understanding that getting something
0.60%
as a percentage of Cost of Goods Manufactured done quickly but then having to fix errors is not a way 0.40%
(COGM). This resulted in a favorable COPQ/COGM ratio to operate. Taking the time up front to build a capable 0.20%
as compared to the prior year. process that allows us to run quickly without errors is 0.00%
2019 2020 2021
more valuable to West and our customers. We saw high Actual Actual Actual
A key area of focus was also an increased level of
participation and engagement, as our team members
We realized a 7.6% reduction in manufacturing-related defects
supplier quality management. In 2021 we established
connected globally to discuss this topic through a series from 2020 to 2021.
a Supplier Management Program, organizing the
of events and interactive activities.
manufacturing site-level Supplier Quality function
to support and be aligned with the existing Corporate Our culture of quality goes well beyond the Quality
EVERY DOSE. EVERY TIME. 100% COMMITMENT.
Supplier QA group. This will provide the necessary Function. We strive to have Leadership in Quality and
framework to deploy best in class supplier qualification, a Patient First Focus evident throughout each area,
monitoring and feedback programs across all suppliers. function and level within the company, all working
together as One West Team towards supporting our
purpose of improving patient lives around the globe.
2019 – 2023 GOALS
YoY 10% reduction in Customer response rate of Reduction in Out of Spec 15% reduction in COPQ
manufacturing related defects 10 days or less (OOS) Customer Complaints
of 10% each year
18
PURPOSE. GOVERNANCE.
Compliance & Ethics
Responsible business practices are
Code of Business Conduct
essential to fulfilling West’s purpose
At West, we believe that every team member is West conducted its annual Code recertification training people managers, led by an external trainer with the
of improving patients’ lives. Our
responsible for ensuring that our reputation remains process, which requires team members to review theme of “Managers Matter — 3 Ways to Strengthen a
corporate values are at the foundation
strong, and for fostering a culture in which compliance and agree to the Company’s expectations related to Culture of Integrity.” This training focused on building
of our culture, and we hold ourselves with the West Code of Business Conduct (“Code”) their business-related conduct. In 2021, our training an open-door culture where communication, feedback,
and adherence to our core values drives our everyday completion and Code recertification rate was nearly and personal discussions are encouraged.
accountable to the highest standards of
business activities. The Code, which is available in 98%, which is consistent with prior years.
quality, integrity and respect — for our West also has a Business Partner Code of Conduct
multiple languages on WestPharma.com and West’s
In November 2021, West held its annual Compliance in place, and in 2021 we launched a new third-
team members, our customers and the company intranet, serves as a statement of our culture
and Ethics Awareness Week with a focus on party online training platform, helping to ensure
and sets forth the expectations for our global One
patients we serve.
cybersecurity, third-party management and ESG topics. third parties understand our expectations and hold
West Team in their interactions with each other and
This year’s theme, “Mission Possible,” underscored the them accountable to our own standards. This new
our stakeholders.
importance that every team member is responsible training platform provided expanded reach and an
The Code compels team members to report their for maintaining West’s strong culture of integrity, improved user experience. Also, as noted above, one
concerns using any of several reporting avenues and which helps us to make delivering on our mission of of the priorities identified going forward is a greater
prohibits retaliation for reports made in good faith. a healthier world, possible. We are intensifying our emphasis on a more responsible supply chain, which
Those reporting choices include the team member’s efforts regarding ESG issues and dedicating additional includes diversity, sustainability and compliance
manager or any other manager at the Company, resources to respond to all of our stakeholders and considerations.
Human Resources, the Compliance and Ethics Office improve the world which we all share.
or the Law Department. West also provides the option
Throughout the year, we continued to share frequent
to report anonymously through its Integrity Helpline,
communications on the importance of “Speaking Up”
toll free or online, available 24/7 from anywhere in
and reminders on the non-retaliation policy and
Alignment with UNGC Sustainable Development Goals the world in multiple languages.
available reporting avenues. We held trainings for all
19
Compliance & Ethics
PURPOSE. GOVERNANCE.
Data Protection High-Level Oversight & Authority
West takes its critical responsibility to secure the personal In 2021, West continued to reinforce its efforts to build and
data of its customers, team members and other stakeholders maintain a culture of integrity through its Compliance and Ethics
very seriously. Program governance.
We have programs and processes in place to maintain adherence Our Executive Compliance Oversight Committee (ECOC), chaired by West’s
to all applicable data privacy regulations, including the European Chief Compliance Officer and comprised of all members of West’s Leadership
“ Our Speak Up culture Union’s General Data Protection Regulation, the California Consumer Team, continued to provide strategic direction for our compliance activities
and open-door policy Privacy Act of 2018 and many others throughout the world. and ensure regular reporting to the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors.
helps create a trusting With guidance from the ECOC, our business unit compliance committees
The number of jurisdictions where data privacy laws have been or will
environment where support our global compliance structure and its corresponding policies and
be implemented is constantly increasing. Therefore, in 2021 West
team members can feel procedures to support our team members in acting ethically in accordance
expanded its global team dedicated to supporting data privacy and
comfortable talking with West’s high standards. Our compliance team also works closely with our
educating team members on protecting against cyber threats. Personal
to their manager or a ESG steering committee to ensure alignment and prioritization of goals.
data protection will continue to be a priority for West into the future.
member of HR if they
see something that does
not align with our Code
and high standards
of integrity.”
Camila Vieira
HR Supervisor, Brazil
20
PURPOSE. GOVERNANCE.
Enterprise Risk Management
Business Continuity Management
The mission of our Business Continuity This program focuses on four key areas: Business Continuity Plans for each of our West’s continued investment in and emphasis on
manufacturing sites are a critical part of our BCM, effective business continuity management provides
Management (BCM) program is to
1. Workforce — Sustainment of workforce, productivity,
ensuring plans are in place in the event of an incident a solid framework for further building organizational
and ensuring appropriate employee responsiveness
safeguard the business by implementing
that could cause a potential disruption at a site. resilience with the capability of an effective response
during a disruption.
end-to-end Business Continuity, Risk These Plans lay out clear roles and responsibilities that safeguards the interests of our stakeholders,
2. Business — Continuance of critical business,
and include risk assessments for each site along reputation, brand, and value-creating activities.
Management, and Enterprise Resilience manufacturing and distribution processes.
with steps to mitigate risks.
solutions that reduce risk, strengthen 3. Technologies — Data integrity, security and essential
continuance of critical technology infrastructure crucial Our BCM program ensures appropriate Risk
operational resilience and build capacity
in delivering products and services. Identification and Mitigation, Crisis Management,
to achieve and sustain long-term
Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery Plans
4. Supply Chain — Mapping, alternate arrangements,
are all in place, linked and regularly monitored to
capabilities. logistics, and security of raw materials and vendor
supply services. facilitate organizational resilience. This includes active
engagement in monitoring enterprise critical risks
West’s BCM program aligns with ISO : 22301 (Security
and mitigation strategies with Board of Director
and Resilience — Business Continuity Management
oversight. This program ensures that we are best
Systems — Requirements) and the Business Continuity
prepared to continue the delivery of products and
Institute’s Good Practice Guidelines.
services at acceptable predefined levels following
any disruption.
21
Enterprise Risk Management
PURPOSE. GOVERNANCE.
Cybersecurity
Cybersecurity is one of the main focus areas Key cybersecurity strategic initiatives in 2021 included Our Global Cybersecurity Strategic Plan
eliminating legacy VPN services, implementing a focuses on how we can continue to reduce
of our BCM program, and we are committed
global vulnerability Management and Penetration risk through certain key areas, including:
to maintaining strong cybersecurity program
Testing program, establishing a global 24x7
• Vulnerability management
to protect West critical infrastructure, our
Security Operations Center, and enforcing a policy
• Penetration testing
information asset, our customers, and other to block access to external storage devices to
• Routine audits
protect against transmission of malicious files.
stakeholders’ information. “ Cybersecurity is a critical
• Product modernization
Our Cybersecurity program is actively monitored focus at West, and every
• Cybersecurity awareness and education
2021 was a unique year and cybersecurity was
by our Board of Directors and the Audit Committee, team member understands
a key concern for businesses, organizations, • Training
both of whom receive update reports at each their important role in
and governments across the entire globe. The
formal meeting. West continues to collaborate being vigilant to protect our
Proactively focusing on this Plan helps to
continuation of remote work as a result of the
with government agencies (Department of business operations and the
minimize the threats for disruptions, and
pandemic left organizations vulnerable to
Homeland Security, Cybersecurity & Infrastructure confidentialityofourdata
reduce the time to detect and respond,
sophisticated cybercrime. West responded to these
Security Agency and FBI Cyber Division) to conduct and important assets.”
enabling a quicker recovery and return
increased attacks by proactively and frequently
Cybersecurity Assessments and gain insight into
to normal operations.
educating team members on how to recognize Behrad Talebzadeh
our operations and cybersecurity capabilities.
threats through global Cybersecurity Awareness Sr. Director, Infrastructure and Cybersecurity
speaker events, a simulated phishing attack and
a cadence of ongoing communications.
22
GRI Index
Year 2020 2021 Year 2020 2021
GRI 302-1 ENERGY WITHIN THE ORGANISATION2,3 GRI 305-4 GHG EMISSIONS INTENSITY2,3
Thermal Fuel consumption by type (non-renewable) Emissions Intensity 2.89 2.84
GRI 305-5 REDUCTION OF GHG EMISSIONS2,3
Scope 1 (Thermal) (kWh) 163,008,212 172,760,695
Electrical Energy Consumed (non-renewable) Procurement of Green Energy (Tons CO ) 12,322 11,373
2
Scope 2 (Generator Distillate Fuel Oil 4) (kWh) 1,505,281 1,439,592 (Scope 1) Energy Management / Facilities Projects 681 455
Scope 2 (Electrical) (kWh) 231,118,316 246,699,975 (Scope 2) Energy Management / Facilities Projects 1,182 581
Energy Consumed (renewable) Total 14,185 12,399
GRI 306-3 WASTE GENERATED3
Solar Energy Scope 1 Consumed (kWh) 16,655 12,731
Scope 2 (Electrical) Purchased Renewable (kWh) 35,677,212 36,919,237 Total Weight of Waste Generated (lbs.) 29,926,303 39,887,477
Total Energy Consumption (kWh) 431,325,676 457,832,230 GRI 306-4 WASTE DIVERTED FROM DISPOSAL2
GRI 302-3 ENERGY INTENSITY2,3 Total Weight of Waste Diverted From Disposal (lbs.) 23,174,012 33,696,627
GRI 303-3 WATER WITHDRAWAL2
Energy Intensity Factor 10.33 10.13
GRI 302-4 REDUCTIONS ACHIEVED AS A DIRECT RESULT OF CONSERVATION AND EFFICIENCY INITIATIVES2,3 Total Water Withdrawal (Gal.) 270,560,909 279,165,752
Scope 1 (Gas/Oil) (kWh) 3,760,219 2,455,298 GRI 403-9 WORK RELATED INJURIES2
Scope 2 (Electrical) (kWh) 3,090,122 2,612,750 The number of fatalities as a result of work-related injury 0 0
Total Reductions in Consumption (kWh) 6,850,341 5,068,048 The rate of recordable work-related injuries 0.94 0.85
GRI 305-1 DIRECT (SCOPE 1) GHG EMISSIONS2,3 The rate of recordable work-related injuries with lost time 0.21 0.33
Scope 1 (Gas) (Metric Tons CO Equivalent) 29,543 31,310
2
GRI 305-2 INDIRECT (SCOPE 2) GHG EMISSIONS2,3
1 All information reported is believed accurate at the time of inclusion and based upon assumptions, most of which are described in this report.
Prior year data may be updated with new information but the impacts are immaterial unless specifically noted in the report.
Scope 2 (Generator Distillate Fuel Oil 4) (Metric Tons CO Equivalent) 405 388
2 2 West’s baselines are based on 2018 Scope 1&2 Energy consumption data and 2018 absolute CO2 emissions. This baseline was chosen as 2018
is the starting year of the 5 year goals with the most up-to-date and accurate information to help establish a firm baseline.
Scope 2 (Electrical) (Metric Tons CO Equivalent) 90,911 96,536
2 3 B ased on availability of data and the way West manages its business, some regional sales offices, administration facilities, technology centers,
Total CO2 Emissions (Metric Tons CO2) 120,858 128,234 distribution centers and any subsidiaries may be excluded. Any exclusions contained within this report are not believed to have a material impact.
4 Emission factors conversion source: The Climate Registry, US EPA, USA EPA egrid, International Energy Agency (IEA)
23
West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc.
530 Herman O. West Drive
Exton, PA 19341 USA
610.594.2900
www.westpharma.com
@WestPharma West Pharmaceutical Services
@WestPharma @westatwork
Copyright © 2022 West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc.
All trademarks and registered trademarks used in this report are the property of West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc
or its subsidiaries, in the United States and other jurisdictions, unless noted otherwise.
11650 • 0622
