“Keep everlastingly at it”
TM
Herman O. West
Environmental Social Governance
• •
2022 ESG REPORT
Table of Contents
OUR PLANET OUR VISION
4 LETTER FROM RYAN METZ, ESG LEADER, ASSOCIATE GENERAL COUNSEL
5 ABOUT WEST
6 AWARDS AND ORGANIZATIONAL INVOLVEMENT
7 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY INITIATIVE
OUR PLANET
9 ENVIRONMENT
OUR VISION OUR TEAM
OUR TEAM
12 HEALTH AND SAFETY
14 DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION
17 PHILANTHROPY
OUR GOVERNANCE
20 QUALITY
22 BUSINESS COMPLIANCE AND INTEGRITY
OUR GOVERNANCE
24 ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT (BUSINESS CONTINUITY / CYBERSECURITY)
26 GRI INDEX
Then & Now
The way we innovate has changed over the years. We’ve gone from hand-drawn
blueprints to advanced computer-aided technology. Our understanding of
medical science is much richer, enabling us to create even more sophisticated
medical solutions that make it easier for patients to better manage their health.
O U R V I S I O N
A LETTER FROM
Ryan Metz
ESG Leader,
Associate General Counsel
Keep As we look back over our 100-year a more comprehensive, quantitative, global warming to 1.5°C. We know that to our Mission, Vision, and Values.
history, starting in 1923 with our and measurable business plan. the private sector has a crucial role to These priorities are Climate Strategy;
founder, Herman O. West, we have play in this, and West has committed to Waste in Operational Processes;
Herman O. West was well known
been committed to sustainable joining other organizations worldwide Research and Development (R&D)
everlastingly
for his quote, “Keep everlastingly at
business practices — to giving back by setting emissions reduction targets for the Environment; Responsible
it” — a saying he frequently used to
to our communities and providing grounded in science through the
Supply Chain; Talent Diversity and
keep his employees focused with a
a safe, healthy, and diverse work Science-Based Targets initiative (SBTi).
Attraction; and Talent Engagement
continuous improvement mindset.
at it… environment for our team members.
and Retention. We have set 12 KPI
Today, we are proud to carry that mantra Another key advancement is ensuring
areas to ensure we can measure our
In 2017, we first formalized our forward — and “Keep everlastingly at that our ESG strategy has a commercial
impact on these new priorities.
Environmental, Social, and Governance it” with our ongoing commitment to focus, which includes working
(ESG) strategy to focus on the six ESG. As we look ahead and build our collaboratively with our customers and
For 100 years now, I am pleased with our progress and am
areas in which we felt we could strategy to best support our next 100 suppliers to solve ESG challenges. We
proud of the commitment our Executive
West has been by the make the greatest impact: Diversity years of business, ESG will underpin want to ensure that our ESG goals
Leadership Team and Board of Directors
& Inclusion; Quality; Compliance; all areas of our business strategy, align with those of our customers
side of our customers, have made in this area. Our Leadership
Philanthropy; Environmental budgets, and expansion projects. and that we are being responsive to
Team understands the paramount
Sustainability; and Health & Safety. their needs as well. We know that
making a meaningful
One of the key advancements in importance ESG plays in our overall
ESG performance is important to
And in 2019, we started measuring our ESG strategy moving forward is business performance, and each leader is
difference through our customers, and it’s important
against our five-year Environmental adding greater scientific rigor and committed to the responsibility of their
that we are clearly communicating
our mission to contain Goals, which will conclude in a more quantitative focus to our functions in supporting our ESG goals.
to them our commitment and efforts
2023. You can learn more about our environmentally based targets. Science-
in critical areas such as carbon
and deliver injectable While we have seen great strides, we
performance against those goals within based targets will provide a more clearly
neutrality, recycling and reuse of
are very aware that more work needs
this ESG Report. We have made the defined pathway for West to reduce
therapies that improve products, and secondary packaging.
purposeful decision to move from a greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) that are to be done. I am confident that our
patient lives. Corporate Responsibility (CR) report in line with the Paris Agreement goals. As was first announced in last year’s commitment to “Keep everlastingly
to an ESG report, for we believe Through the 2015 Paris Agreement, report, through an iterative and data- at it” will lead to continued progress
that ESG provides a clearer path to world governments committed to curbing driven process, we have selected six in this critical area, both now
business sustainability, integrating global temperature rise and limiting priorities of focus that directly link and for future generations.
| “Keep everlastingly at it”
4
O U R V I S I O N
About West
“ At West, our commitment
West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc. is a leading Today, West has more than 10,000 team with our expert analytical testing, device
to ESG is core to our business
provider of innovative, high-quality injectable members across 50 sites worldwide, helping to manufacturing and assembly, regulatory
and long-term value creation.
solutions and services. As a trusted partner to support our customers by delivering expertise, and more.
approximately 47 billion components and While we are taking action
established and emerging drug developers,
West’s Contract Manufacturing services
devices each year. West offers a unique to positively impact our
West helps ensure the safe, effective
offer healthcare partners quality, safety, and
combination of products and services, environmental footprint,
containment and delivery of lifesaving and life-
reliability in injection molding, contract
including proprietary packaging, containment safety, diversity, governance,
enhancing medicines for patients.
assembly, and finished packaging services. The
and drug delivery products, as well as contract
and social responsibility,
West Contract Manufacturing team serves its
In 2023, West is celebrating its centennial manufacturing, scientific insight, and technical
we are also focused on how
partners’ needs by providing a single-source
expertise. West’s products range from stoppers
anniversary. For 100 years, West has been
we can partner with our
solution from product conceptualization
and seals for injectable packaging systems to
committed to delivering for customers and
customers to support a healthy
self-injection and reconstitution systems. through manufacturing and final packaging.
driving innovation focused on the needs of
planet for everyone. This
the patient. The story behind our commitment
West’s Analytical Services include extractables Headquartered in Exton, Pennsylvania, West commitment is being driven
began in a small building in Philadelphia, and leachables analysis, particle analysis, generated $2.89 billion in net sales in 2022. by myself, our Board of
Pennsylvania, when Herman O. West began and container closure integrity analysis. Our West is traded on the New York Stock Exchange Directors, and the entire
producing plungers and aluminum seals for Integrated Solutions Program combines West’s (NYSE: WST) and is included in the Standard & Senior Leadership Team
dental cartridges. high-quality packaging and delivery products Poor’s 500 index.
across our organization.”
Eric Green
President, CEO, and
Chair of the Board
W E S T
FAC T S
50 locations with ~47 billion components $2.89 billion in net sales ~10,000 team
25 manufacturing sites and devices produced in 2022 members globally
each year
| “Keep everlastingly at it”
5
O U R V I S I O N
Awards & Organizational Involvement
G E N E R A L AWA R D S D I V E R S I T Y & I N C L U S I O N AWA R D S
West was honored to be recognized by
Soaring 76 Award Most Influential Black Executives in Corporate America
a number of organizations and industry Philadelphia Business Journal Kimberly Banks MacKay, Sr. VP. General Counsel & Corporate Secretary
Savoy
associations throughout 2022. These
Top 100 Most Sustainable Companies 2022
awards are a testament to West’s
Barron’s Women Worth Watching in STEM
commitment to nurturing a culture
Liat Shochat, Sr. Director, R&D
of diversity and inclusion, offering America’s Most Responsible Companies 2022 The Diversity Journal
Newsweek
innovative products, and supporting the
Women of Distinction
communities in which we live and work.
Cindy Reiss-Clark, Sr. VP & Chief Commercial Officer
BioTech Best Technologies Innovation Award – DeltaCube™
The Philadelphia Business Journal
INTERPHEX
Best Bioprocessing Supplier Award: Fill-Finish
Asia Pacific Bioprocessing Excellence Awards
Recognition for Corporate Societal Excellence – Singapore PH I L A N T H R O P Y AWA R D S
AmCham Cares
2022 Faces of Philanthropy Award
2022 Multinational Credit Team of the Year
The Philadelphia Business Journal
World Credit Congress & Exhibition
Best Bioprocessing Supplier Award: Fill-Finish & Packaging
Taiwan BioPharma Excellence Awards
Global Public Service Award 2022
The Ireland-U.S. Council
India Biologics and Vaccines Outstanding Achievement Award
Biologics Festival India 2022
Veterans of Influence Award
Rick Russo, Manager, Global Security Operations
The Philadelphia Business Journal
| “Keep everlastingly at it”
6
O U R V I S I O N
Corporate Sustainability Initiative
As a leading global provider of innovative future. Through responsible operations, with our company’s strategy and with
solutions for the healthcare industry, we sustainable product development, and strong the United Nations SDGs. Corporate and
recognize the critical role we play in partnerships, West strives to make a positive organizational success requires stable
promoting sustainability and advancing impact on society, the environment, and economies and healthy, skilled, and
social progress. We are proud to continue the communities in which we operate. Our educated workers, which in turn increases
our steadfast commitment to the United ongoing commitment to aligning with the brand trust and investor support.
Nations Global Compact’s (UNGC’s) 17 SDGs is rooted in our core values and reflects
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). our unwavering dedication to creating a better
world for current and future generations.
By aligning our business practices with the
SDGs, we aim to contribute meaningfully to Our five-year corporate responsibility
the global agenda for a more sustainable goals, running from 2019-2023, align
| “Keep everlastingly at it”
7
Then & Now
Our continued commitment and focus on safety has enabled us to ensure
our team members are gowned with the most appropriate personal protective
equipment (PPE). Safety engineering enhancements have enabled us to
improve the safety of our machines with the addition of proper guards and
other safety measures to ensure we are providing a safe working environment,
enabling our team members to go home safely at the end of their day.
O U R PL A N E T
Environment
For the past 100 years, West has been adapt and continue to improve our efficiencies Companies and one of America’s Most
committed to working side-by-side with our has resulted in a higher output of product per Responsible Companies by Newsweek. In
customers to improve patient health. We are unit of energy and water used. addition, West was honored with several
also committed to helping to create a healthier
regionally focused awards, including a
• I n 2022, we saw steady improvement in our Energy
environment and to being good stewards of a
Corporate Societal Excellence Award in
Intensity, bringing us to 12% improvement, and well on
sustainable future.
our way to achieving our 2023 goal of 15%. Singapore and Global Public Service Award
in Ireland.
In the words of our founder, Herman O. West, • F or Emissions, we made a 4.1% improvement over 2021,
“ It is our duty to protect
and have plans in place to help us meet our goal by the
we are committed to “Keep everlastingly
West is a signatory to the Task Force on Climate-
end of 2023, despite a significant increase in production and preserve our earth for
at it” — and never stop working towards
over the 5-year period of this metric. related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), which
future generations through
improving our impact on the environment.
• W e made continuous progress against our Water Target, affirms our commitment to fiscal transparency
As our business has evolved, so have we. As sustainable practices. I’m
achieving a 6.7% reduction in water intensity versus the and to being a leader in addressing the current
the world evolves, so do we. Our Sustainability proud to work
baseline year.
climate emergency. In addition, West is a
Program is designed to target reductions in the
for a company that makes
• W e continued to focus on Landfill Diversion. In 2022, proud member and active participant with
areas where we can have the greatest impact:
83% of our waste was recycled, and we are exploring
caring for our environment
the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative
CO emissions, waste and increased recycling,
ways to increase this amount towards reaching our goal
2
(PSCI) and is a signatory of the PSCI Principles, such a high priority.”
and energy and water use. in 2023.
aligning with their vision for excellence in
Over the past few years, the pandemic and In 2022, West was recognized by several Tyler Werner
safety, environmental, and social outcomes
Director, Environmental,
continued growth of our core business resulted organizations, serving as a testament to our
for the global pharmaceutical and healthcare
Social & Governance
in historic growth in production for West. While commitment to caring for our environment.
supply chain.
this increase in production required an overall These recognitions include being named as
increase in energy and water use, our ability to one of Barron’s Top 100 Most Sustainable
Alignment with UNGC Sustainable Development Goals
| “Keep everlastingly at it”
9
O U R PL A N E T
Environment
(continued)
As we enter the final year of our 2019–2023 During 2022 and 2023, we have been • E liminate up to 100% of operational waste to landfill shipping methods, and studying beneficial
metrics, we are excited to look ahead to the working to enhance our quantitative targets, • P artner with customers to reduce, reuse, and recycle reuses for our products.
secondary packaging
future with an enhanced focus on our strategic which will enable us to achieve success in
We view sustainability as a vital responsibility
approach to sustainability. the Environment-related priorities of our • C ollaborate with customers to explore sustainability
for our business and will continue to monitor
improvements throughout the product lifecycle
ESG Strategy, including Climate Strategy,
• W e have added greater scientific rigor and a more the ever-developing global sustainability
Waste in Operational Processes, R&D for the • G ather additional scope 3 emissions information from
quantitative focus to our environmentally based targets. our supply chain and develop a plan to reduce those standards and regulations, ensuring that we are
Environment, and a Responsible Supply Chain.
emissions
• W e are aligned with the 2015 Paris Agreement aligned with leading organizations in this area
in a commitment to do our part in curbing global Our 2030 targets, which we will expand upon We are proud to note that our established CO and following best practices in setting science-
2
temperature rise and are setting emissions reduction in next year’s ESG Report and will address emissions targets will be aligned with the SBTi. based targets.
targets grounded in science through the Science Based
applicable baselines, are expected to include: West takes a concerted, cooperative approach
Targets Initiative (SBTi). Moving forward, we will keep everlastingly
with our customers and other stakeholders
• A chieve 50% renewable electricity
at it, continuing to build a healthier world
• W e are working collaboratively with our customers and to work together to help each of us most
suppliers to solve ESG challenges, to better align our • C ontinuously improve energy efficiency by and knowing that our strategic commitment
efficiently achieve our ESG targets for mutual
ESG goals, and to ensure that we are responsive to their 3% year-over-year
benefit. This includes investigating shared to sustainable practices will deliver positive
needs as well.
• R educe absolute emissions by 40% power purchase agreements, researching more outcomes for our people, our customers, and
• A chieve a 15% water intensity reduction sustainable materials, exploring more efficient our communities for generations to come.
Water Intensity
Intensity Reduction % vs Baseline
| “Keep everlastingly at it”
10
%
noitcudeR
ytisnetnI
% of Waste Landfill Diverted From Landfill Cumulative Energy Intensity Reduction
6.6 0.00% 0% 100.0%
16%
-0.8%
80.0% 6.4 -2% 14%
60.0%
6.2 -4% 12%
40.0% -5.4% 10% 6.0 -6%
20.0% -6.6% -6.7% 8%
5.8 6.5% 6.1% 6.5% 6.2% 6.1% -8% 0.0% 43.0% 52.0% 77.4% 84.5% 83.0% 6%
2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022
4%
Water Intensity % vs Baseline % Landfill Diverted
2%
3% 6% 9% 12% 15%
0%
2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
% noitcudeR
ytisnetnI
Cumulative Absolute C02 Emissions Reduction
7%
11.9%
10.2%
8.4%
3%
2% 4.8%
1%
0% 0.00%
2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Target % Cumulative Intensity Reduction
e20C
noitcudeR
% evitalumuC
6.3%
6%
5%
4%
1.9% 1.3%
0.2%
0.00%
Absolute GHG Emissions (Tons C02) % Reduction
Then & Now
Our scientific expertise has enabled us to grow in our ability to provide
analytical services, with vast expertise in extractables and leachables, particle
analysis, container closure integrity, and performance and packaging/delivery
systems, among other methodologies. As a result, we have grown as a true
partner for our customers, helping them in designing studies and navigating
the challenging and evolving regulatory landscape.
O U R T E A M
Health & Safety
At West, we believe that a healthy and safe place Safety Champions across all departments approach towards achieving excellence in
workplace is a fundamental right of every within our sites. These champions are recruited our HSE Management System and protecting
person. We take responsibility for maintaining from non-HSE (Health, Safety, Environment) our team members. This Management
a safe workplace at every site and work hard roles and help to hold their teammates System is based on our Core Values, strives
to minimize the risk of incidents, injuries, accountable — supporting the mantra that for continuous improvement, and fulfills the
safety is everyone’s responsibility. intention of ISO 14001 and ISO 45001.
and exposure to health hazards for all team
“ Team member safety is not
members, contractors, and visitors at our sites.
In 2022, our West manufacturing sites were To ensure compliance with our standards, our
It is West’s policy to comply with all applicable a choice. It is a fundamental
required to hang a Safety Charter and hold a production sites are audited, both internally
health and safety laws and regulations,
commitment that safeguards
signing ceremony when the site leadership and externally with corporate experts, with
designing and operating our sites to provide a
signed their commitment to safety, and site HSE Excellence Audits, HSE Maturity Audits, the well-being of our people,
safe and healthy workplace.
team members then signed as well. These and Focused Improvement Audits. In addition,
fosters trust, and empowers
public displays of commitment and visible audits are performed by PSCI, of which West is
We also firmly believe in the importance of
individuals to reach their full
reminders have helped to keep our team a signatory member.
cultivating a culture of safety where every
potential within a safe and
members engaged and holding each other
team member has a shared responsibility and
An anchor for our proactive focus is our SEE-
accountable to always remain focused on secure work environment.”
is engaged in safety. Our President, CEO, and
DO-SAY Something program, which requires
safety.
Chair of the Board, Eric Green, leads with this
all team members to work together and
Bin Shen
mindset, and it is carried through to the entire A key to the safety improvements we have keep a constant eye out for hazards in the Manager, HSE &
leadership team and every site director. To realized has been our HSE Excellence strategy workplace (SEE), act on the hazard right away to Operational Excellence
build this mindset organizationally into our and ongoing initiatives around a proactive immediately mitigate the risk if possible (DO),
sites, we have established Safety Embedded focus on prevention and identifying hazards in and then report the risk to management or HSE
Organizations, which identify and put into the workplace. This strategy provides a holistic Representative (SAY).
Alignment with UNGC Sustainable Development Goals
| “Keep everlastingly at it”
12
O U R T E A M
Health & Safety
(continued)
Another successful behavior safety program This proactive focus and team member implementation as previously mentioned. this level takes dedicated time and effort
has been our BEST (Behavior Safety Tours) West engagement has resulted in an improved We will continue to have an enhanced focus across the organization. The fact that our
program, which is an observation process that Recordable Incident Rate (RIR) — the lowest on leading indicator metrics, Corrective
One West Team has taken that time is
provides direct feedback from team members. RIR West has achieved since recording and Preventative Action (CAPA) program
further evidence of our mutual goal of
Our manufacturing sites select five to six safety
that metric. Our 2022 RIR of 0.67 was a 21 globalization, and the cadence of weekly
creating the safest workplace possible.
behaviors to master. When trained team members
percent improvement versus 2021, and a and monthly business review meetings.
walk the floor, they observe and record the actions
29 percent improvement versus 2020.
they see. If team members are conducting their These programs, and many others, are
work safely using the appropriate methods, it is While the consistent RIR improvement is aligning and standardizing the safety
positively noted and recorded. If a team member noteworthy, the most significant aspect is the process in ways not previously achieved.
is not working safely, they get instant feedback. work being completed in the areas of proactive Demonstrated commitment to safety at
2 022 K E Y
H I G H L I G H T S
Lowest Recordable 100% of manufacturing 39 Quarterly Safety Impact 70% of sites trained Zero safety recordable
Incident Rate (RIR) sites implemented Awards were presented to with the HSE Safety incidents at seven of our
ever since West began their Safety Charter team members for their Leadership Training manufacturing sites
recording that metric to underline their commitment to safety
commitment to safety
| “Keep everlastingly at it”
13
O U R T E A M
Diversity & Inclusion
As West celebrates its 100th anniversary, we Building on the success of previous years, As part of our continuous pursuit to identify
reaffirm our longstanding commitment to West’s Chief Executive Officer and Executive crucial ESG challenges that West faces, we have
employee experience, diversity, and inclusion Leadership Team continue to maintain a steady recently recognized supply chain diversity as a
(EXDI), which is inherent to our core value of focus on EXDI objectives, including increasing priority. With a commitment to fostering a vibrant
One West Team. diversity throughout all team member levels. and inclusive supply chain, we aim to intensify
Currently, 36 percent of West’s Board of and rejuvenate our endeavors in diversifying our
We know that EXDI benefits the entire workforce
Directors are women or members of an under- supply chain. This resolute focus will empower “ Diversity, equity, and
and supports the overall success of our business.
represented population. In addition, 70 percent us to create deeper connections with suppliers
inclusion are not just ideals
West does not tolerate discrimination or
of West’s Executive Team are women and/or who embody a range of diverse backgrounds and
harassment of any team member, customer, to strive for — they are the
U.S. minorities. experiences. We understand the inherent value of
or service provider because of age, race, color, foundation of our One West
collaborating with suppliers whose composition
religion, sex, ancestry, national origin, military Based on the analyses of the 2022 Our Voices
reflects the demographic diversity of the markets Team, providing a platform
service or application, marital status, citizenship Team Member Engagement Survey results, and
that we serve. By embracing a broader range
for team members to share
status, physical or mental disability, genetic to further refine our EXDI strategy, members
of suppliers, we unlock possibilities to exceed
their voices and for every
information, sexual orientation, gender identity of West’s Senior Leadership Team held team
customer expectations and deliver exceptional
or expression, or other protected characteristics member town halls for their areas to introduce individual to flourish.”
value. This strategic approach not only sharpens
under applicable laws. Our Voices Survey results specific to their
business acumen but also propels us towards the
functions and emphasize the importance of Mustafa Thompson
fulfillment of our commitment to instigate positive
We are working hard to create a safe and inclusive
DE&I Program Manager
providing an exceptional employee experience
societal change across our global community
environment that allows all team members to
while valuing diversity and inclusion. The
while fostering an environment that celebrates
bring their best selves to work each day, ensuring
West CEO-led Inclusion Council continues to
and embraces diversity.
that our team members across the world — with
oversee our diversity strategy and metrics and
varying life, educational, cultural, and family
to champion both local and global Employee
experiences — all have a voice. We learn and grow
Business Resource Group (EBRG) efforts.
through the wide diversity of thoughts and ideas.
Alignment with UNGC Sustainable Development Goals
| “Keep everlastingly at it”
14
O U R T E A M
Diversity and Inclusion
(continued)
Recruiting and Retaining Top Talent awareness and support diversity recruitment. connecting team members around the globe, members were familiarized with the newly
Emphasizing diversity is a key aspect of our The EXDI Team also partnered with Diversity further expanding networks and fostering developed resources available to them and
recruitment strategy, with specific benchmarks and Talent to create a Virtual Employee professional development. Our EBRG structure training on how to sustain the EBRG initiative.
now has four groups — Women’s Initiatives
in place to make certain we attract and secure a Resource Center as a centralized repository
Another initiative for retaining top talent was
Network (WIN), Multinational Organization
wide-ranging talent pool. Our diverse workforce of global resources for our team members
the launch of the Science, Technology, and
Supporting an Inclusive Culture (MOSAIC),
across all tiers results in innovative problem- to learn more about West and continue their
Engineering (STE) Eminence program, which is
Veterans & Allies Leading for Organizational
solving and more informed decision-making, professional development.
helping to create clear career paths for West’s
Results (VALOR), and the newly chartered West
thus adding significant value to our team.
technical population.
Disability Network (WDN).
Today, 46 percent of our U.S. workforce comes
As we look ahead, our goal is to continue to
Team Member Experience Throughout the year, members of the
from minority backgrounds, and 36 percent
evolve as a diverse, equitable, and inclusive
We understand that to help retain our talented West EBRG community held professional
of our global team members are female.
workplace. We will work hard to support
development luncheons and fireside chats,
team members, we must continue embedding
Throughout 2022, we partnered with several
and hosted guest speakers focused on both EXDI and promote more inclusive practices
EXDI strategies across the entire Employee
organizations to support our diversity in leadership development and professional throughout the organization, creating a safe
Experience journey.
recruiting goals, including a partnership with development. The revitalization of the EBRGs and welcoming environment for current team
Disability Solutions to offer Fireside Chat and Revitalization of the EBRGs occurred culminated with a two-day EBRG Summit, in members and for those talented candidates we
HR/Manager webinars to increase disability throughout 2022 as the groups continued which all EBRG Global Steering Committee seek to attract.
| “Keep everlastingly at it”
15
O U R T E A M
Diversity and Inclusion
(continued)
2 022 W E S T D I V E R S I T Y
54 different languages 20 countries with a West 10,000+ team members 34% of team members
spoken by West team presence worldwide with Science, Technology,
members Engineering, Math
(STEM) degrees are
women (globally)
S E N I O R L E A D E R S H I P 44% 53%
AT W E S T
of senior leaders at West are of those promoted into senior leadership
DEFINED AS SR. DIRECTORS AND ABOVE women and/or minorities. positions were female and/or minority
WO M E N AT W E S T 36% 35%
of our global team members are female. of all global new hires were women.
R AC E A N D E T H N I C I T Y 46% 54% 38%
AT W E S T
of our U.S. team members are people of U.S. hires in 2022 were people of our people managers are women
of color. of color. and/or U.S. minorities.
| “Keep everlastingly at it”
16
O U R T E A M
Philanthropy
Throughout our 100-year history, West’s charitable giving framework and STEM education, and Diversity, Equity,
philanthropy has been a cornerstone of is separated into three tiers: and Inclusion (DE&I) and scholarships.
West’s culture. It anchors our purpose of
1. C orporate Giving through direct charitable gifts The Herman O. West Foundation continued
improving patients’ lives around the globe
made by West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc.,
its support of team members facing
and enables us to amplify our impact in the
and its subsidiaries. This giving is focused on
hardships by awarding 476 grants from the
communities in which we live and work. Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math
Employee Emergency Fund. Much of this “ I’m so proud of the way
(STEM) education, ESG and Community Services,
Our One West Team continues to share Healthcare, and People with Disabilities. support was given to our team members
our team members show
a characteristic that has defined West in Puerto Rico after the devastation
2. F oundation Giving through the Herman O. West
their support through
since its beginning — the commitment Foundation, which is focused on West’s Scholarship from Hurricane Fiona, and our team in
generous giving of their
Program, the Employee Emergency Fund, Employee
and desire to put people first. Supported China as they endured lengthy COVID-19
and Campaign Matching, and Dollars for Doers,
time and resources —
by the company, our team members lockdowns. The Foundation also awarded
which encourages employee volunteering.
organize and donate time for service days, 20 scholarships to the children/dependents helping to inspire change
3. E mployee Giving through our West without
fundraising events, and other volunteering of team members in the United States.
and shape a brighter future
Borders* campaigns, which support our Annual
opportunities for charitable organizations.
Global Giving Campaigns, Food Drives, Local
Our overall Employee Giving saw a 16% increase for the communities in
Campaigns, and Global Volunteerism.
from the previous year’s giving, highlighted by which we live and work.”
Through strategic program implementation, a 110% increase over 2021 in pounds of food
our Corporate Giving donated over $2.7 collected during the Annual Global Food Drive Laura Pitt
million, including almost $600,000 to cancer and a 5% increase in employee donations. Manager, Community Affairs
research and support, manufacturing readiness
Alignment with UNGC Sustainable Development Goals * West without Borders is not affiliated with Doctors Without Borders®,
which is a registered service mark of Bureau International de
Medecins San Frontieres.
| “Keep everlastingly at it”
17
O U R T E A M
Philanthropy
(continued)
We are proud of the culture of giving in each of the regions in which 2 022 H I G H L I G H T S:
we operate, including some of these highlights:
Asia Pacific In this year of our centennial celebration,
we are humbled by our roots and the long-
• O ur team in India supported the Navajeevan Blind
Relief Center for local children in need. term commitment of giving at West. We are
so grateful for our team members and their
• T aiwan’s campaign benefited the Taiwan Fund for
110% increase in $119,200 in individual $657,000 in total
Children and Families, helping to give children in continued generosity and dedication to our
food drive donations employee donations — a employee giving — a 16%
poverty digital learning opportunities. philanthropic programs. In the words of our
from 2021 5% increase from 2021 increase from 2021
founder, we look forward to “Keep everlastingly
Europe
at it” as we continue to grow our giving and
• O ur teams in Germany combined to donate over 14,000 make a meaningful impact on improving lives
pounds of food during their annual food drive.
around the globe for many years to come.
• W est’s Ireland sites donated clothing and essential
goods for Ukrainian refugees.
50 scholarships funded 2,361 employee
Americas for underrepresented volunteering hours tracked
students in manufacturing within West’s Dollars for
• W est’s Grand Rapids, MI site supported The Children’s disciplines Doers program
Healing Center, with a 133% increase in donation over
the previous year that went towards enabling children
with weakened immune systems to play and interact
with each other.
• A West community grant helped to fund the
expansion of the Unite for Her breast cancer
organization to Native Americans in Arizona.
| “Keep everlastingly at it”
18
Then & Now
What started as a small business in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, has grown
into a global company, with over 50 locations in 20 countries, including
25 manufacturing sites. This global network enables West to be positioned
as a trusted global leader in the marketplace, enabling our customers to
deliver their life-saving and life-changing medicines to billions of patients
every year.
O U R G OV ER N A N C E
Quality
At West, our commitment to quality is anchored growth through the deployment of best-in-class across the global organization. We know that a
in our Core Value of Leadership in Quality. This quality processes and procedures to ensure strong Quality Culture creates an environment
value is a constant reminder that we must never scalability for future growth; and importantly, where all team members share a set of values,
compromise on quality because we know that driving improved customer satisfaction through beliefs, and behaviors that are committed to
millions of patients are relying on our products timely investigations of and responses to quality.
every day. complaints.
Supporting this Quality Culture included the
“ Our unrelenting focus on
This focus on quality includes excellence in
In 2022, the Quality leadership team was introduction of three Quality Behaviors, which
quality at West is the bedrock
manufacturing and design, as well as in quality
expanded to best support our Quality were reinforced in multiple ways across the
management systems. We know that a strong of our Quality Culture.
Strategy. This expansion included the addition organization:
Quality Management System (QMS) and of new roles focused on: Supplier Quality Our team members fully
1. P atient / Customer Focus — Having a patient-focused
global harmonization of processes create the
— ensuring end-to-end supplier quality understand the importance
and risk-based approach and following through on our
foundation needed to support an enterprise-
management; Quality Systems — focusing on
commitment to quality and patient safety. of quality, and that everything
wide Quality Culture. Built upon this foundation
the harmonization of West’s QMS; and Quality
2. A ccountability — Doing the right thing at all times and they do has an impact on
is our Quality Strategy, which focuses on
Excellence — focusing on product quality,
holding oneself and others accountable for quality.
ensuring that finished products are of the our customers being able
continuous improvement, reducing waste, and
3. E mpowerment — Having the courage and authority to
highest quality with an emphasis on patient
lean six sigma. to deliver lifesaving
speak up when something does not look or feel right.
safety; building a diverse, competency-based
and live-changing
quality organization; achieving reductions in A key area of focus throughout the year was to
medicines to
the overall cost of quality; supporting business ensure that we foster a stronger Quality Culture
patients around
the world.”
Iris Bavaj
VP, Quality Assurance
Alignment with UNGC Sustainable Development Goals
| “Keep everlastingly at it”
20
O U R G OV ER N A N C E
Quality
(continued)
The theme of West’s Global Quality Week in 2022 was “The ABCs of a Quality Culture,” which
emphasized the importance of established Quality Behaviors. We saw high participation and
engagement across the organization in all Quality Week activities, including over 1,100 entries
for a Quality slogan contest. The winning slogan — Quality. Every time. Every where. Every one. —
highlights the importance that quality is every team member’s job, not just those who serve in
the Quality department.
K E Y Q UA L I T Y
H I G H L I G H T S
F O R 2 022 :
Facilitated Quality Culture Realized a 9% improvement Progressed QA leadership Implemented significant Bolstered the Quality
Workshops at many of our in final reject rate over development with the improvements to Design Leadership Team with three
manufacturing sites. 2021 in elastomer completion of 745 online Control processes to new senior leadership
manufacturing. learning courses by QA mitigate risks and ensure positions to enable a greater
team members. compliance. focus on implementing
scalable, harmonized, and
compliant processes across
the enterprise.
| “Keep everlastingly at it”
21
O U R G OV ER N A N C E
Business Compliance & Integrity
At West, we hold ourselves accountable to the understand and navigate. Through the Code Similar to the Code, we also refreshed our
highest standards of integrity and respect — for Refresh project, we streamlined and optimized Corporate Policies, making them more
our team members, customers, and the patients content by focusing on key principles of ethical principle-based and easier to understand, and
business conduct and reducing harder-to- created a new online library in which they are
whom we ultimately serve. Every West team
“ We continue to drive
understand legal jargon, resulting in a Code stored — making them easier to access for our
member is responsible for ensuring that our
ownership that is more
that is comprehensive, principles-based, team members.
reputation remains strong and for operating in
easier to follow, and enhances team member reflective of a deeper purpose
full compliance with the West Code of Conduct In November 2022, West held its annual
understanding.
(“Code”) and adhering to our Core Values. The Compliance and Cybersecurity Awareness Week, for compliance through
Code, which is available in multiple languages West provides the following avenues for team with the theme of Awareness, Recognition, educating, empowering, and
on Westpharma.com and West’s company members to raise questions or report their and Reinforcement, which highlighted these
ensuring that West team
intranet, underpins our approach to always concerns without fear of retaliation: important topics:
members know, understand,
operating with the highest integrity. • A manager or shift supervisor • A wareness about the refreshed Code, West’s Business
and are accountable for
Compliance & Integrity program, and Speak-Up @ West
In 2022, we were pleased to release an • A ny company manager
— a program that reinforces the importance of speaking
Doing the Right Things
updated and refreshed Code to our global • A ny member of Human Resources or Quality up when something does not look right.
in the Right Way,
team members. Over the years, the Code • A ny member of the Business Compliance & Integrity • R ecognition of Data Privacy and Cybersecurity as well as
Team Every Day.”
had progressively been lengthened with Conflicts of Interest.
additional policies and procedures, resulting • A ny member of the Law Department
• R einforcement of West’s annual Code and Mutual
Jessica Colon
in a complicated and expansive document that • I ntegrity Helpline (www.west-helpline.com or Respect training requirements.
VP, Chief Compliance &
became challenging for our team members to 1-800-461-9330) Data Privacy Officer
Alignment with UNGC Sustainable Development Goals
| “Keep everlastingly at it”
22
O U R G OV ER N A N C E
Business Compliance & Integrity
(continued)
While we reinforce Compliance throughout Data Privacy protecting personal data and is dedicated to guidance from the WBCC, our business teams
the year, Compliance and Cybersecurity West takes its critical responsibility to secure its data privacy program and educating team support our global Compliance structure and
Awareness Week gives us the opportunity the personal data of its customers, team members on protecting against cyber threats.
its corresponding policies and procedures to
to drive awareness on ways to protect members, and other stakeholders very
support our team members in acting ethically
Compliance Oversight
West, ensure each team member seriously. We have programs and processes in
in accordance with West’s high standards.
The West Business Compliance Committee
understands the importance of protecting place to maintain adherence to all applicable
(WBCC), chaired by West’s Chief Compliance
West, and reinforces organizational data privacy regulations, including the Additional information about the Business
and Privacy Officer and comprised of West’s
commitment to operating with integrity. European Union’s General Data Protection
Compliance and Integrity program is
Regulation, the California Consumer Privacy Executive Team and the Head of Internal Audit,
available on the company website.
Act of 2018, and many others throughout the continue to provide strategic direction for
world. The number of jurisdictions where data our Compliance and Data Privacy programs
privacy laws have been or will be implemented and ensure regular reporting to the Audit
is constantly increasing. West is committed to Committee of our Board of Directors. With
| “Keep everlastingly at it”
23
O U R G OV ER N A N C E
Enterprise Risk Management
Our Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) program 4. Reviewing and revising critical response plans our role as a supplier within the global healthcare
helps us manage the risks inherent in our 5. Identifying and sharing information across the network supply chain.
business by gaining a greater understanding and
Utilizing the COSO framework helps to eliminate We apply an enterprise-wide approach to Business
awareness of risks facing the business, ensuring
siloed risk management and group risks under five Continuity Management (BCM) to maintain a duty
risk-appropriate mitigation efforts are in place,
main categories: Financial, Operational, Strategic, of care for our team members, protect customers
and regularly monitoring and ensuring the “ Business Continuity Planning
Legal & Compliance, and Cybersecurity. This focus and corporate assets, and minimize financial, legal,
company meets or exceeds the expectation of all
enables West to embed ERM into daily operations is critical for our business.
reputational, and strategic impact. In addition,
stakeholders, including investors and regulators.
and strategy setting, effectively linking growth,
West aims to ensure the continuation and rapid Mother Nature and other
This proactive and systematic approach to risk
risk, and return.
recovery of critical business, manufacturing, and
potential crises are unpredict-
management is integrated into our decision-
We have enhanced our ERM and Security team to distribution operations in the event of major
making processes and activities, which are able, so it’s important to know
better position the company to evaluate, control, internal or external incidents.
essential for achieving strategic and operational we have a plan in place to
and respond to the risks and challenges presented
objectives. The ERM function is closely aligned As a result of planning, training, and exercises,
support the safety of our people
by unforeseen natural and human-caused disasters
with crisis management, business continuity, and we provided effective response and recovery
and health crises. This includes appointing a and to provide a continued
disaster recovery. support during Hurricanes Fiona and Ian, ensuring
dedicated Enterprise Risk Manager who conducted supply of medical devices
that West’s sites in Cayey, Puerto Rico, and St.
In 2022, we transitioned to the Committee
a robust review to identify our most significant risks
Petersburg, Florida, all were well-prepared and and components that
of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
along with establishing a physical security team
recovered quickly. improve patient lives.”
Commission (COSO) ERM framework, which
focused on Enterprise Security Risk Management.
is a top benchmark for public companies. This The BCM program aligns with ISO 22301 and other
Our Business Continuity and Resilience team
Brenda Perez
framework includes the elements of: applicable standards and regulatory requirements.
engaged our manufacturing sites to review and Director, Operations,
1. Developing a strong governance and risk-aware culture Executive leadership provides global, regional, and Cayey, Puerto Rico
substantially update our business continuity plans
local program sponsorship and governance.
2. Embedding ERM concepts into strategic planning to ensure the consistent delivery of high-quality
3. Identifying ERM risks, scoring, and prioritizing products during times of crisis, especially given
Alignment with UNGC Sustainable Development Goals
| “Keep everlastingly at it”
24
O U R G OV ER N A N C E
Enterprise Risk Management
(continued)
Cybersecurity which provides a comprehensive method management framework. In 2022, West did
We are committed to maintaining a strong for developing a flexible, repeatable, not suffer any known cybersecurity breaches.
cybersecurity program to protect West’s critical performance-based, and cost-effective
Each year, we hold a global Cybersecurity
infrastructure, our information assets, our approach to identifying and managing
Awareness Campaign across the company to
customers, and other stakeholders’ information. cybersecurity risks. We use the NIST
reinforce key messages around cybersecurity.
Framework to assess and improve our security
Our key infrastructure and cybersecurity
Team members are required to complete
posture, including engaging a third party
initiatives have focused on:
various trainings on cybersecurity upon hire
consultant to analyze our information security
and on an annual basis, including internally
• D ata Loss Prevention — enforced security and
capabilities against the NIST Framework.
compliance on all managed devices, prevented developed cybersecurity training, anti-
exfiltration of sensitive data, and blocked unauthorized Our cybersecurity defenses also utilize
phishing training, and general information
transfer of West confidential and proprietary data.
technologies, such as next-generation
security training, all of which are provided
• A utomated Asset Detection and firewalls, intrusion detection and prevention
in multiple languages. We provide a
Management — deployed an automated tool to
measures, security information and event
regular cadence of communications to
manage IT assets with traceability, improved lifecycle
management, anti-malware, advanced
our team members, educating them
management, and accelerated incident response.
threat protection, multifactor authentication,
on the latest cybersecurity threats and
• G lobal Cybersecurity Awareness Program
network segmentation, and encryption,
(Phishing) — established a robust how to protect the company’s assets.
to ensure the privacy and security of our
Cybersecurity Awareness Program to improve
user awareness and behavior and evaluate customers’ data. We also have a dedicated
progress and areas for improvement.
Security Operations Center monitoring our
We have adopted the National Institute of applications and infrastructure on a 24/7 basis,
Standards and Technology (NIST) Framework, which is integrated with our enterprise crisis
| “Keep everlastingly at it”
25
O U R G OV ER N A N C E
GRI Index
Year 2021 2022 Year 2021 2022
GRI 302-1 ENERGY WITHIN THE ORGANISATION2,3 GRI 305-4 GHG EMISSIONS INTENSITY2,3
Thermal Fuel consumption by type (non-renewable) Emissions Intensity 2.84 2.62
Scope 1 (Thermal) (kWh) 172,760,695 173,094,967 GRI 305-5 REDUCTION OF GHG EMISSIONS2,3
Electrical Energy Consumed (non-renewable) Procurement of Green Energy (Tons CO2) 11,373 10,377
Scope 2 (Generator Distillate Fuel Oil 4) (kWh) 1,439,592 830,789 (Scope 1) Energy Management / Facilities Projects 455 167
Scope 2 (Electrical) (kWh) 246,699,975 252,989,034 (Scope 2) Energy Management / Facilities Projects 581 416
Energy Consumed (renewable) Total 12,399 10,960
Solar Energy Scope 1 Consumed (kWh) 12,731 14,775 GRI 306-3 WASTE GENERATED3
Scope 2 (Electrical) Purchased Renewable (kWh) 36,919,237 38,739,656 Total Weight of Waste Generated (lbs.) 39,887,477 45,351,991
Total Energy Consumption (kWh) 457,832,230 465,669,221 GRI 306-4 WASTE DIVERTED FROM DISPOSAL2
GRI 302-3 ENERGY INTENSITY2,3 Total Weight of Waste Diverted From Disposal (lbs.) 33,696,627 37,620,176
Energy Intensity Factor 10.13 9.94 GRI 303-3 WATER WITHDRAWAL2
GRI 302-4 REDUCTIONS ACHIEVED AS A DIRECT RESULT OF CONSERVATION AND EFFICIENCY INITIATIVES2,3 Total Water Withdrawal (Gal.) 279,165,752 285,396,678
Scope 1 (Gas/Oil) (kWh) 2,455,298 950,209 GRI 403-9 WORK RELATED INJURIES2
Scope 2 (Electrical) (kWh) 2,612,750 1,666,606 The number of fatalities as a result of work-related injury 0 0
Total Reductions in Consumption (kWh) 5,068,048 2,616,815 The rate of recordable work-related injuries 0.85 0.67
GRI 305-1 DIRECT (SCOPE 1) GHG EMISSIONS2,3
Scope 1 (Gas) (Metric Tons CO2 Equivalent) 31,310 31,371
1 All information reported is believed accurate at the time of inclusion and based upon assumptions, most of which are described in this report.
GRI 305-2 INDIRECT (SCOPE 2) GHG EMISSIONS2,3 Prior year data may be updated with new information but the impacts are immaterial unless specifically noted in the report.
2 West’s baselines are based on 2018 Scope 1&2 Energy consumption data and 2018 absolute CO2 emissions. This baseline was chosen as 2018
Scope 2 (Generator Distillate Fuel Oil 4) (Metric Tons CO2 Equivalent) 388 224 is the starting year of the 5 year goals with the most up-to-date and accurate information to help establish a firm baseline.
3 Based on availability of data and the way West manages its business, some West locations may be excluded. Any exclusions contained within this
Scope 2 (Electrical) (Metric Tons CO2 Equivalent) 96,536 91,339 report are not believed to have a material impact.
4 Emission factors conversion source: The Climate Registry, US EPA, USA EPA egrid, International Energy Agency (IEA).
Total CO2 Emissions (Metric Tons CO2) 128,234 122,934
| “Keep everlastingly at it”
26
West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc.
530 Herman O. West Drive
Exton, PA 19341 USA
610.594.2900
www.westpharma.com
Copyright © 2023 West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc.
All trademarks and registered trademarks used in this report are the property of West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc
or its subsidiaries, in the United States and other jurisdictions, unless noted otherwise.
11725 • 0623
