2020
Environmental,
Social, and
Governance
Report
Table of Contents
Our Planet
Welcome to Wynn Resorts 3
Corporate Sustainability Message 46
Message from Matt Maddox, CEO 4
Wynn Targets Net-Zero Operations 47
Wynn Resorts Core Values 6
Returns on Renewable Strategies 49
Wynn Employee Foundation Pillars 7
Wynn North America Environmental Data 51
2020 Company Awards 7
Waste Management Programs 52
Goldleaf Sustainability Program 8
Wynn Resorts Corporate Sustainability Goals 9
Property Descriptions 10
Wynn North America ESG Highlights 11 Wynn Macau Limited 54
Wynn Macau Limited ESG Highlights 12 2020 Global ESG Program 55
Corporate Governance 56
Wynn North America 14
Corporate Governance Message 57
Our People
Board Composition and Diversity 58
Corporate Workforce Message 15
Why our Board Governance is Effective 59
Leading Through Crisis 16
Board Role in Risk Oversight 60
Wynn Resorts COVID-19 Community Response 18
Shareholder Engagement 61
Planning a Safe and Successful Reopening 20
Supporting Employees Back at Work 23
Reporting Indexes 63
Supporting Employee Wellness
About This Report 64
in Tough Times 26
On-site COVID-19 Testing
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)
“Green Lights” Events 28
GRI Disclosure Index 65
A Five-Star Vaccination Site 29
K9 and Animal Welfare 30 Sustainability Accounting
Wynn North America Workforce Highlights 32 Standards Board (SASB)
SASB Disclosure Index 80
Our Communities
Corporate Community Message 34
Heart Meets Action 35
Giving in Response 37
Unwavering Community Connections 39
Preventing Human Trafficking 42
Welcome to
Wynn Resorts
BACK TO TABLE OF CONTENTS
A Message From Matt Maddox, CEO of Wynn Resorts
On page six of this report, we list “excellence” as one of our core values. Certainly, any good company
believing in the concept of excellence must deliver outstanding experiences and service, delivered by the best
employees.
But a truly great company, one founded on the belief that excellence is not just an aspiration but a necessity,
and operating in today’s socially and environmentally fraught world, is called to a higher standard: to take
responsibility, not just for our decisions, but for the future impacts of those decisions. Impacts we ourselves
may not live to see, but will have caused, nonetheless.
The first core behavior Wynn Resorts expects of our employees is to “Care About Everyone and Everything”
and I expect no less from the organization as a whole. With all of the information and data available to us, it’s not
difficult to discern if a decision made today will be more or less likely to result in a climate that is sustainable and
safe. Or if it will be more or less likely to foster a society of greater social justice.
Decision-making with careful consideration of impacts 20 or 30 years from now isn’t just essential, it’s an
existential imperative. That is what the future demands of us.
Wynn Resorts 2020 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report Introduction 4
WELCOME
TO
WYNN
RESORTS
BACK TO TABLE OF CONTENTS
Message from Matt Maddox, CEO Continued
That is why you’ll read in this report that I set a goal of achieving Net-Zero carbon emissions by 2050.
By the way, we’re also going to do it the right way, which is to ensure that all of our vendors are Net-Zero as well.
Being Net-Zero ourselves does nothing for the climate our children will be forced to live in if we don’t insist our
vendors share and abide by the same goals.
Three years ago, I set a goal of making Wynn Las Vegas energy-independent, with a focus on renewables.
Today, we procure 75% of our peak energy demand for Las Vegas from renewable resources and I’m proud of
our team for that accomplishment. Now I’ve set a new goal for us to procure or produce 50% of our energy
from renewable sources by 2030. I’ve also declared 2030 as the last year in which we allow ourselves
any year-over-year increase in carbon emissions. After that, each year will be a reduction�we’re going to try
as hard as possible to do it even sooner.
Equally as important, our hiring decisions, our employee compensation programs, and our workplace policies
must not just benefit our employees today. They will contribute to the evolution of a society that is fairer, more
just, and frankly more considerate.
Wynn Resorts can do this. We have mastered the execution of our product: creating singular guest experiences
at the highest level. We will apply the same uncompromising attention to excellence to achieve our new goals. In
this case, our past performance is the best indication of our future success.
Matt Maddox
Chief Executive Officer and Member of the Wynn Resorts Board of Directors
Wynn Resorts 2020 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report Introduction 5
WELCOME
TO
WYNN
RESORTS
BACK TO TABLE OF CONTENTS
Our Values
Service Driven
We provide the highest quality of service to everyone and
everything, including our guests, our coworkers, and our community.
Excellence
We always find room for improvement. If it’s good, make it
outstanding. If it’s outstanding, make it spectacular.
Artistry
We look at every detail of our jobs as a blank canvas awaiting our
creativity and magic. Whether setting a guest room or setting food
on a plate, we find a way to make it artful.
Progressive
We always look to the future, continuing to innovate and elevate
the experiences we provide to our guests, our employees,
and our community.
Our Core Behaviors
• Care about everyone and everything
• Treat everyone with dignity and respect
• Take personal responsibility for every detail
• Approach everything we do as if it’s a work of art
• Create unforgettable experiences
• Always strive to be better
Wynn Resorts 2020 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report I ntroduction 6
WELCOME
TO
WYNN
RESORTS
BACK TO TABLE OF CONTENTS
Wynn Employee Foundation Pillars
Vibrant Communities
Making Nevada and Massachusetts better places to live.
Cultural Enrichment
Celebrating and supporting cultural, civic, and heritage
expression in our communities.
Education
Innovation in education, workforce preparedness, and
providing opportunities for at-risk youth.
2020 Company Awards
Wynn Resorts named first overall in quality of productions/services in Fortune magazine’s 2020 World’s
Most Admired Companies list in the hotel, casino, and resort category
Wynn Resorts ranked number six on Forbes America’s Best Employers
Wynn and Encore Las Vegas ranked number four on USA Today’s 2020 10 Best Las Vegas Casino list
Forbes Travel Guide awarded Wynn Resorts 22 Five-Star Awards in 2020
Wynn Las Vegas chosen as best resort in Las Vegas on the
2020 World’s Best Awards list by Travel + Leisure
Wynn and Encore Las Vegas voted best resort in Las Vegas on
Conde Nast Traveler’s 2020 Reader’s Choice Awards ranking
Wynn Resorts received the 2020 Most Consistent Commitment Award by Preferred Hotels and Resorts
Encore Boston Harbor received the James D.P. Farrell Award for Brownfields-Remediation 2020 Project
of the Year from the Environmental Business Council of New England
Wynn Resorts received the 2020 Corporation/Donor of the Year Award from Opportunity Village
Wynn Resorts 2020 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report Introduction 7
WELCOME
TO
WYNN
RESORTS
BACK TO TABLE OF CONTENTS
SUSTAINABILITY PROGRAM
Wynn Resorts’ success does not come from remaining stagnant. Progress is part of our nature, and our
commitment to sustainability is testament to the evolution of our Company. Our approach to sustainability is
built on a core principle: care for our guests and our planet. This means providing award-winning service at our
resorts worldwide, in a manner that respects communities, people, and our environment. Our sustainability
program focuses on four global goals that will lead the Company into a responsible future:
1
Invent Solutions
We are unique in our ability to invent sustainable solutions
that raise standards of sustainable operations in our industry.
2
Add Value
Our unwavering commitment to guest service allows us to practice
sustainability in ways that enhance the guest experience while
making no compromises to Five-Star luxury.
3
Take Action
We don’t believe in being quick, we believe in being immediate.
We anticipate the needs of our guests and our planet.
4
Scale Knowledge
We share our lessons through transparent communication,
and we advocate for collaboration to solve global climate issues.
Wynn Resorts 2020 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report Introduction 8
WELCOME
TO
WYNN
RESORTS
BACK TO TABLE OF CONTENTS
Wynn Resorts Corporate Sustainability Goals
In the same way the COVID-19 pandemic required a global response, climate change and environmental
sustainability also require bold commitments and even bolder actions. We believe it is our duty to help alleviate
the negative impacts on our world, and we have made public commitments to several significant initiatives
designed to confront the global threat of climate change, including:
1
Net-Zero by 2050
To reduce or offset all carbon dioxide (CO2) produced by
our operations no later than 2050.
2
Carbon Dioxide Emissions peak by 2030
To stop and reverse year-over-year growth of operational
carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions by 2030.
3
50% renewable energy procurement by 2030
To increase Wynn’s supply of renewable energy produced or
procured to at least 50-percent of total consumption by 2030.
Our commitments are aligned with the recommendations made by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
Change (IPCC) for limiting global warming to below 1.5 degrees Celsius, as referenced in the 2015 Paris
Climate Accord.
Wynn Resorts 2020 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report Introduction 9
WELCOME
TO
WYNN
RESORTS
BACK TO TABLE OF CONTENTS
Property Descriptions
Encore Boston Harbor
On June 23, 2019, the Company opened Encore Boston Harbor, an integrated
resort in Everett, Massachusetts, adjacent to Boston along the Mystic River. The
property features a luxury hotel tower with a total of 671 guest rooms and suites,
approximately 210,000 square feet of casino space, 16 food and beverage
outlets, approximately 71,000 square feet of meeting and convention space,
and approximately 10,000 square feet of retail space. Public attractions include
a waterfront park, floral displays, and water shuttle service to downtown Boston.
Wynn and Encore Las Vegas
Wynn Las Vegas features two luxury hotel towers with a total of 4,748 guest rooms,
suites, and villas, approximately 194,000 square feet of casino space, 33 food and
beverage outlets, approximately 513,000 square feet of meeting and convention
space (including the 217,000-square-foot Meeting and Convention Expansion
that opened in February 2020), approximately 152,000 square feet of retail space
(the majority of which is owned and operated under a joint venture of which the
Company owns 50.1%), as well as two theaters, three nightclubs, a beach club, and
recreation and leisure facilities.
Wynn Macau
Wynn Macau features two luxury hotel towers with a total of 1,010 guest
rooms and suites, approximately 252,000 square feet of casino space, 12
food and beverage outlets, approximately 31,000 square feet of meeting
and convention space, approximately 59,000 square feet of retail space, a
rotunda show, and recreation and leisure facilities.
Wynn Palace
Wynn Palace, which opened in August 2016, features a luxury hotel tower
with a total of 1,706 guest rooms, suites, and villas, approximately 424,000
square feet of casino space, 14 food and beverage outlets, approximately
37,000 square feet of meeting and convention space, approximately 107,000
square feet of retail space, public attractions including a performance lake
and floral art displays, and recreation and leisure facilities.
Wynn Resorts 2020 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report Introduction 10
WELCOME
TO
WYNN
RESORTS
Wynn North America ESG Highlights
Solar generation puts
By 2020,
Wynn Las Vegas on the
Wynn Resorts installed
U.S. EPA’s Green
23 MW OF SOLAR POWER
Power Partnership
capacity in the US.
Fortune 500 List.
100% of energy supplied Encore Boston Harbor was built
to Encore Boston to the highest environmental
standards, receiving a LEED Harbor is sourced from
PLATINUM CERTIFICATION
renewable and green
FOR NEW BUILDING DESIGN
sources of power.
AND CONSTRUCTION.
Wynn Resorts domestic
Encore Boston Harbor is the employees raised more
first integrated resort in the U.S.
than $500,000 USD in
with an ON-SITE MICROGRID
2020 for the Wynn
WITH BATTERY STORAGE.
Employee Foundation.
Wynn Resorts global Wynn Resorts DONATED MORE THAN
$23 MILLION USD in cash and in-kind
employees donated
donations to charitable organizations in
almost 35,000 hours
2020, more than $5 million of which was
of volunteerism
comprised of cash and in-kind donations
in 2020. for COVID-19 relief efforts.
WYNN
NORTH
AMERICA
BACK TO TABLE OF CONTENTS
Wynn Resorts 2020 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report Wynn North America 11
Wynn Macau Limited ESG Highlights
Wynn Macau Limited 2020 Carbon Dioxide Emissions Wynn Macau Limited Water Consumption
by Scope and Property (Metric Tons CO2) (Gallons x 1,000)
Wynn Macau Limited Power Consumption by Property
MWh (Gigajoules) MWh (Gigajoules) MWh (Gigajoules)
Wynn Macau
and Wynn Palace
Wynn Macau gave more recycled a total of Wynn Macau Limited
than $15 MILLION USD donated 14,000
8,500+ lbs of soap in
in donations and VOLUNTEER HOURS
2020 by working with
sponsorships in 2020. in 2020.
Clean the World.
WYNN
MACAU
LIMITED
BACK TO TABLE OF CONTENTS
Wynn Resorts 2020 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report Wynn Macau Limited 12
Wynn Macau Limited ESG Highlights Continued
Wynn Macau Limited 2020 Employee Age Distribution
8.7%
of Wynn Macau
Limited employees
held positions of
management in
2020.
Wynn Macau Limited 2020 Gender at Levels of Leadership
54%
72%
of Wynn Macau
of Wynn Macau
Limited’s local
Limited employees
employees
were local in 2020.
are female.
WYNN
MACAU
LIMITED
BACK TO TABLE OF CONTENTS
Wynn Resorts 2020 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report Wynn Macau Limited 13
Wynn North America
Our People
Corporate Workforce Message
At Wynn Resorts, we believe only people make people happy.
The exacting level of service provided to our guests by Wynn Resorts employees requires far more than skill; it
is an art form. Wynn’s more than 26,000 global employees share an innate personal responsibility to take care
of our guests, and of each other, which is among the reasons why Wynn Resorts holds the most Forbes Travel
Guide Five-Star Awards of any independent resort company. There is simply something different about a Wynn
Resorts employee: something singular and special that helps our guests feel welcome the moment they cross
our threshold. In our view, this is the hallmark of true hospitality, and it’s the foundation on which our Company’s
core beliefs and values are built.
From day one, the Wynn Resorts brand has been driven by excellence, attracting a team of dedicated
professionals with unparalleled ambition and the ability to spark human connections. For more than 15 years,
we have championed fundamental principles of human and workplace rights, investing in the creation of holistic
and innovative development and benefits programs that empower every employee at every level to not only
succeed, but to excel, in both their professional and personal lives.
Identifying, developing, and retaining high-quality talent is a critical business imperative for Wynn Resorts. Five-
star service, in other words, depends on five-star employees who feel valued by a company they can believe in
and trust. We are confident that no company works harder to show employees that each one is essential to our
reputation for excellence. We also greatly respect an employee’s right to freedom of association and right to
be a member of a trade union, maintaining an open and supportive dialogue with trade union leaders to ensure
that each employee’s voice is heard and understood.
For our entire organization, 2020 was the most unpredictable and challenging year we have ever faced. In this
year’s report, we are showcasing many of the ways our global employee team delivered watershed initiatives,
including our Company’s Health and Safety Plan, resources for regular COVID-19 testing, the creation of an on-
site vaccination center, employee reopening safety training, and so much more. Combined with the many new
policies and programs we instituted to help manage our employees’ mental health and physical wellness during
this challenging time, Wynn Resorts is firmly on the path to a return that is bigger and better than ever.
As has been true throughout our Company’s history, Wynn Resorts remains dedicated to building a progressive,
diverse, equal, and inclusive environment. We value respect and safety above all, so each employee can show
up to work every day, without exception, as his or her true and authentic self. Ultimately, our employee-relations
mission remains clear: to foster excellence throughout the lifetime of a career, a goal that allows Wynn Resorts
to maintain its status as the luxury hospitality industry’s employer of choice.
For additional detail on our workforce diversity and employee demographics, visit GRI 405-1 at the end
of our report and highlighted in our EEO-1 Reports.
WYNN
NORTH
AMERICA—OUR
PEOPLE
BACK TO TABLE OF CONTENTS
Wynn Resorts 2020 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report Wynn North America 15
Leading Through Crisis
In 2020, the travel industry was among the most affected sectors of the global economy. When the spread of
COVID-19 caused Wynn Macau and Wynn Palace to close in February 2020, we recognized the potential for
disruption to life and business in the U.S. and around the world. Ultimately, this helped us prepare for what
lay ahead.
In March 2020, Wynn created a multi-disciplinary team to monitor the global development of the pandemic and
serve as a 24-hour resource for resort leaders to gather information and develop responses. At the beginning
of March, Wynn Las Vegas was the first hotel on the Strip to shut down operations for the safety of employees
and guests, while Encore Boston Harbor urged regulators to permit it to close before other businesses within
Massachusetts were required to do so.
Weekly status calls with department leaders oversaw the development of closure procedures, plans to keep
critical employees engaged, and crisis communications with our guests and our employees. During the initial
78-day shutdown, Wynn Resorts committed to paying all full- and part-time employees their salaries, wages,
tips and benefits in order to safely stay home in quarantine. At a cost of nearly $250 million in payroll, this
decision was not made lightly. It was a critical decision that was necessary to preserve Wynn’s long-term
investment in employee culture and was a direct reflection of our core values.
“A company’s response to tough challenges will always be easier,
faster, and better if its people all share a common set of values,”
Wynn Resorts CEO Matt Maddox said. “At Wynn Resorts,
our values are enduring. They have been with us since
our founding, and they guide us today.”
WYNN
NORTH
AMERICA—OUR
PEOPLE
BACK TO TABLE OF CONTENTS
Wynn Resorts 2020 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report Wynn North America 16
Taking Care of the Community
When Wynn closed its doors in North America, our Community Relations and Food & Beverage teams
moved quickly to ensure the perishable food in our refrigerators would not go to waste. During the closure, we
distributed 175 pallets of food to 18 food banks in Nevada and Massachusetts. Similarly, we donated thousands
of potted plants and flowers to community organizations where they could be enjoyed.
When everyday household items and other sanitary products quickly disappeared from store shelves, we
donated our reserves to community partners and healthcare centers. In addition, we were able to acquire
hundreds of thousands of masks, gloves, and gowns for hospitals, nursing homes, and law-enforcement
agencies. In addition to food and supplies, Wynn contributed more than $5 million in cash and in-kind donations
to community partners.
Wynn employees used the closure period to do important community work. Beginning in May 2020, more
than 100 of our call-center employees began assisting the Southern Nevada Health District’s Contact Tracing
Program. Following a short training program, they began logging four-hour shifts delivering COVID-19 test
results and important health-safety information. Our team contacted and closed 7,831 cases and completed
14,773 phone calls during the two-month period.
Moving Forward to Reopen
Throughout the initial shutdown, Wynn’s goal was to retain as many employees as possible, for as long as
possible. As it became obvious that reopening to business as usual would not be possible, Wynn leadership
worked to understand the stresses upon employees and their families.
During the shutdown, Wynn Las Vegas surveyed employees about their emotional state and how confident
they felt that they had “the right resources and benefits from Wynn Las Vegas to help support you through this
period?” The results: 56-percent of employees responded, “extremely confident,” while 33-percent responded,
“very confident.”
One employee wrote: “I am FOREVER THANKFUL to management for the financial help, but I hope to be back
up to speed when we return.”
WYNN
NORTH
AMERICA—OUR
PEOPLE
BACK TO TABLE OF CONTENTS
Wynn Resorts 2020 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report Wynn North America 17
Wynn Resorts COVID-19 Community Response
More Than $5 Million in Cash and In-Kind Donations
Personal Protective Equipment Virtual Volunteerism and Employee Initiatives
245,000+ N95 Equivalent Masks 18,000+ Virtual and Good Samaritan Hours
732,000 Surgical Masks BARCC Virtual Charity Benefit Walk
561,000 Pairs of Gloves National and Local Virtual Volunteer Opportunities
20,000 Surgical Gowns High School and University Virtual Class Visits
1,000,000 Medical Face Masks (Macau) $37,300+ Raised by EBH Employees & WRL Match
for Everett Grace Food Pantry and MA Hospitals
Recipients Included 4,000+ Handmade Face Coverings
Nevada National Guard Gift Baskets for Seniors
& First Responders
Commonwealth of Massachusetts
Launch of Wynn Care
Law Enforcement
E-Learning Platform (Macau)
Medical & Nursing Facilities
Macau Government
Food Pallets and Supplies Wynn Employee Foundation Grants
$800,000+ Food Donated to 18+ Frontline $100,000 Three Square
Nonprofits in NV and MA
$10,000 Delivering with Dignity
50,000+ Potted Plants and
$25,000 The Shade Tree
Flowers Donated to Boston and Surrounding
$25,000 SafeNest
Communities
$25,000 Bread of Life
8,700 Toiletries for the
Clark County ISO-Q Complex $25,000 Casa Myrna Vasquez
54,000 Toiletries for Bread of Life $25,000 Elizabeth Stone House
and Cambridge Health Alliance
$5,000 for Nevada Medical Center
Everett Hospital
(Hope Means Nevada)
500 turkeys donated to Salvation Army of
Southern Nevada , SHARE Village, and Las Vegas
Rescue Mission for Thanksgiving,
valued at $16,230
WYNN
NORTH
AMERICA—OUR
PEOPLE
BACK TO TABLE OF CONTENTS
Wynn Resorts 2020 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report Wynn North America 18
Wynn Resorts COVID-19 Community Response Continued
ALL IN Challenge Nonprofit Relations & Communication
One Auction and One Sweepstakes Package
Instagram Live Happy Hour for
Donated for the AIC, each valued at $250,000
Opportunity Village
$700,000+ Raised. Each Package
Wellness Phone Call Check-Ins
Offered a Curated Collection of the Resorts’
Most Exclusive Luxuries Nonprofit Conference and Video Calls
100% of Funds Raised Benefited Meals On Stronger Together Newsletter
Wheels, No Kid Hungry, and America’s Food
Fund, Directly Benefiting Feeding America and Webinar Series
World Central Kitchen
Virtual Roundtables
Webinar Series Topics
Mental Health and Wellness
Safety Measures and
Reintroducing Volunteerism
Business and Policy Updates
Chef Prepared Meals and Gratitude Cookies
5,075 Meals for SHARE Village
280 Meals for Ronald McDonald House
644 Meals for The Shade Tree
10,000 Cookies for Nurses
& Hospital Weeks
Supporting our Heroes and Children
6,000+ Meals for Massachusetts Emergency
Management Agency Offered a complimentary one-night stay to 10,000
of our nation’s first responders in appreciation of
14,000 Meals for
their selfless and tireless efforts during
Catholic Charities of So. NV
the pandemic.
1,225 Meals for U.S. Vets
WYNN
NORTH
AMERICA—OUR
PEOPLE
BACK TO TABLE OF CONTENTS
Wynn Resorts 2020 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report Wynn North America 19
Planning a Safe and Successful Reopening
At Wynn Resorts, one of our Core Behaviors is: “Always Strive to be Better.” When it came to reopening, that
meant taking the lead in getting our industry and economy back to work. We employed authorities with medical
and public-health backgrounds to devise a plan for moving forward. The safety of our staff and our guests was
and remains of utmost importance.
The public-health experts we hired collaborated with our department heads in developing a science-based
Health and Safety Plan. The Plan included a comprehensive set of guidelines detailing new safety and
sanitation procedures for every division of the business, from hotel and casino operations to retail, food and
beverage, and aviation services.
Because we believe our guests deserved to understand Wynn’s new safety protocols and how they affect the
resort experience, we published a Health & Safety Plan, which featured the following information:
• COVID-19 testing for all employees
• Non-invasive temperature checks and screening for guests
• Physical distancing guidelines
• Personal protective equipment (PPE) for employees and guests
• Around-the-clock cleaning protocols and products
• Touchless technologies
• New valet and check-in procedures
• Occupancy limits
• Disinfection stations
• More than 26,000 square feet of new, clear partitions for social distancing
WYNN
NORTH
AMERICA—OUR
PEOPLE
BACK TO TABLE OF CONTENTS
Wynn Resorts 2020 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report Wynn North America 20
In the introduction to the summary of this plan, Wynn Las Vegas President Marilyn Spiegel explained,
“We enlisted a team of top-rated medical and health professionals, to help develop our health and disinfection
program, now considered the gold standard in our industry.” Spiegel continued, “Our goal is to provide you with
the full Las Vegas experience from the moment you arrive, so you can leave health and safety worries behind
and enjoy a relaxing getaway.”
Widespread Recognition of the Plan
Other resorts and businesses heard about our plan while it was still under development and asked if they
could use it to inform their own reopening strategies. Wynn CEO Matt Maddox personally shared the plan with
companies in the airline and casino industries, and with state officials. He also proposed a phased reopening
plan to the State of Nevada based on benchmarks for COVID-19 testing and hospital capacity. As a result,
Maddox was invited to participate in a White House Business Council on Reopening alongside the heads of
several other international brands:
“We have thermal cameras at our entrances. We have
company-supplied personal protective equipment. We have just
about every UV technology that you can think of for disinfectant.
So, we’re ready,” Maddox said during the event. “And I’m encouraging
our state that we need to begin a phased approach and get back to business.”
WYNN
NORTH
AMERICA—OUR
PEOPLE
BACK TO TABLE OF CONTENTS
Wynn Resorts 2020 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report Wynn North America 21
Wynn Las Vegas was among the first resorts in the world to become Sharecare Health Security VERIFIED™
with Forbes Travel Guide. The comprehensive facility verification helps ensure that guests can book with
confidence at a resort that maintains consistent and robust health-safety procedures. The verification is
renewed monthly based on a hotel’s compliance with expert-validated best practices that minimize the risk
and impact of COVID-19 and potential future public-health events. The comprehensive verification covers
more than 360 standards across health and hygiene protocols, cleaning products and procedures, ventilation,
physical distancing, the guest experience, and health-safety communication with guests and employees. Hotels
are required to verify their health protocols on an ongoing basis to ensure continued compliance with the most
up-to-date global health standards.
The Reopening Experience
On June 4, 2020, Wynn Las Vegas was one of the Las Vegas resorts to reopen under phase two of the Nevada
United: Roadmap to Recovery plan established by the state’s governor. Because Wynn kept its staff on payroll
and conducted virtual trainings throughout the shutdown, we were able to immediately offer our full luxury
experience, including both hotel towers and casinos, a variety of table games and slot machines, the sports
book, our full portfolio of restaurants and lounges, swimming pools, retail shops, salons, spas, and Wynn’s
18-hole championship golf course. Encore Boston Harbor opened its doors to guests on July 12, 2020, in
compliance with Massachusetts’ public-health policies, and has continued to entertain Boston-area residents.
“We carry a tremendous amount of responsibility for the health and safety of our employees and guests, and
we want to bring them back to our property with confidence,” said Brian Gullbrants, President of Encore Boston
Harbor. “We trained all employees on our new Health and Safety Plan, to ensure that our return to business
shows how much we care.”
WYNN
NORTH
AMERICA—OUR
PEOPLE
BACK TO TABLE OF CONTENTS
Wynn Resorts 2020 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report Wynn North America 22
Supporting Employees Back at Work
Safely reopening was the first step toward recovering from the swift social and economic impacts of the
COVID-19 virus. Throughout the process, Wynn Resorts remained committed to protecting the health and
general well-being of both our employees and their families. They, in turn, rose to the challenge by embracing
new protocols that would allow not only for their return, but also our guests.
With the reopening of both resorts in North America, Wynn instituted a new pandemic policy for sick leave to
ensure employees were under no pressure to report to work while sick. Any employee who felt ill or believed
they may have been exposed to the virus was encouraged to call out of work via our personalized reporting
system. All employees were required to show a confirmed negative test result before returning to the property
when we reopened after closure.
If an employee or household member tested positive for the virus, the employee would receive up to 15 days
of paid leave while recuperating and waiting for all members of his or her household to achieve a negative
test result. Wynn guaranteed that no employee who followed the responsible reporting procedures would
experience any disciplinary action for absence. High-risk employees who did not want to return to work were
encouraged to discuss possible accommodations with Wynn’s human resources.
Protecting One Another
In order to make our resorts safe for our colleagues and guests, every Wynn North America employee was
required to test negative for COVID-19 before returning to the property when we reopened after closure. In
addition, before each on-site shift, employees were required to complete a health questionnaire regarding
common symptoms and possible exposures. Upon arriving at work, temperature checks were conducted.
Under current protocols while on property, all employees and guests must wear masks.
To manage employee health at Wynn Las Vegas and Encore Boston Harbor, teams of dedicated contact
tracers began the detailed work of following up with any employee who had received positive test results
or reported possible COVID-19 exposure or symptoms. Via interviews and monitoring of security-camera
footage, contact tracers determined when employees may have been contagious and whether they may have
exposed others to the illness during their shift. In the very few instances in which the contact-tracing team felt
that other employees may have been exposed by a co-worker, they contacted the possibly exposed employee
and provided detailed information regarding testing and quarantining (with pay). This round-the-clock, multi-
department effort ensured that each employee with whom the contact-tracing team worked received detailed,
thorough, and personalized service, while also helping employees cope with the emotional impact of COVID-19.
WYNN
NORTH
AMERICA—OUR
PEOPLE
BACK TO TABLE OF CONTENTS
Wynn Resorts 2020 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report Wynn North America 23
Wynn Las Vegas also partnered with University Medical Center (UMC) to provide COVID-19 testing at no
cost to all Wynn employees and family members. UMC also began on-site testing of randomly selected Wynn
employees every two weeks. By the close of 2020, more than 5,000 COVID-19 tests had been administered
on-site.
Supporting Diversity
During the civil unrest that peaked in the U.S. in early summer of 2020, CEO Matt Maddox shared a statement
on the Wynn Employee Instagram page: “Racism has no place in our society. The Wynn family is made up of
every race, color, and creed—representing the very best of Las Vegas and Boston. Now is a time for us to stand
united, come together and work for change.”
Then, on June 19, the company posted again: “On this 155th anniversary of Juneteenth, we ask that each of us
pause for a moment and decide what we will commit to do today to increase equality and eliminate racism in
our community.”
To renew support for equality within the Wynn community, the employee-led Diversity Council was restructured
in 2020 to include senior leadership from both Wynn Las Vegas and Encore Boston Harbor. The purpose of the
Council is to guide the Company’s overarching commitment to diversity, equity, and inclusion, and to provide
support to other employee-led councils for LGBTQ employees, veterans, and women in leadership. The Council
also developed the Company’s first Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Policy to codify four goals set by CEO Matt
Maddox:
• Leverage Wynn’s resources to create a culture of inclusion
• Create an inclusive work environment that fully utilizes the contributions of all employees
• Foster a workforce that reflects and embraces the diversity of our community
• Develop outside and vendor partnerships that support our commitment and help create a fair
and equal economy
Among other specifics, the Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Policy expresses Wynn’s commitment to being an
equal opportunity employer and maintaining a workforce that reflects the diversity of the communities in which
we operate.
WYNN
NORTH
AMERICA—OUR
PEOPLE
BACK TO TABLE OF CONTENTS
Wynn Resorts 2020 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report Wynn North America 24
Online Learning for Employees and Their Children
As with other organizations around the world, Wynn Resorts successfully moved its employee-training
programs online during the first weeks of the pandemic shutdown. Doing so allowed us to ensure that
100-percent of our employees safely received the important updates to our policies and procedures before
returning to the resorts.
Returning to work created new challenges for parents of school-aged children whose schools remained closed
or virtual-only. In response, Wynn Las Vegas created a unique partnership with 13 different locations of the Boys
and Girls Clubs of Southern Nevada. Once school started back up in the fall of 2020, we sponsored 400 seats
daily at professionally supervised virtual-learning centers, where the children of Wynn employees could safely
participate in their online school classes.
In addition to academic support, Boys and Girls Club staff also provided a variety of small-group programs and
activities, including arts and crafts, health and wellness, and sports. “Wynn is offering an invaluable service to
its employees during a time of uncertainty,” said Andy Bischel, CEO of the Boys and Girls Clubs of Southern
Nevada. “We are proud to partner with the resort to ensure that students have a structured setting for learning,
and parents have assistance in meeting the demands of both work and school.”
WYNN
NORTH
AMERICA—OUR
PEOPLE
BACK TO TABLE OF CONTENTS
Wynn Resorts 2020 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report Wynn North America 25
Supporting Employee Wellness in Tough Times
Because 2020 was a year of trauma for many people, Wynn Resorts focused more than ever on caring for the
physical, financial, and mental-health wellness of our employees. We bolstered existing programs and created
new ones to address the challenges brought forth by the pandemic. Our utmost priority was doing our part to
assist our staff and our community.
The Employee Assistance Program (EAP) provided by Behavioral Healthcare Options was foundational
to supporting employees throughout the year. Wynn Resorts funds 100-percent of the program’s services,
which include up to five counseling sessions with a licensed mental-health professional, as well as elder care,
childcare, and legal and financial consultations.
To help employees experiencing financial hardship due to reduced family income, Wynn eased the
requirements to qualify for financial support through the employee Lifeline Fund, and increased distribution
amounts from $2,500 to $5,000. We also launched an employees-only wellness app that provides easy
access to resources for better sleep, physical fitness routines, guided meditations, audio books and even live
webinars on topics like stress reduction.
Maintaining Our Connections
While our Boston and Las Vegas properties were closed, Wynn’s Employee Services team organized countless
virtual trainings and fun activities to support employee well-being and maintain our workplace connections.
For example, our Chefs hosted virtual cooking classes, and our beverage experts taught employees how to
mix fun specialty cocktails with and without alcohol. Other events included regular yoga and fitness classes,
a livestream talent show, Tik Tok challenges and virtual family field trips to remarkable destinations like the
Egyptian Pyramids, Buckingham Palace, and the Louvre Museum in Paris.
To keep employees informed, the presidents of Wynn’s North American properties regularly released video
updates explaining all that was happening to bring people safely back to work as soon as possible. Employees
were also encouraged to participate in a new program called Great Ideas From Teams (GIFT). In total,
about 435 frontline employees came together virtually to form 87 teams of two to six people. Each team
brainstormed ideas for creating more memorable guest experiences. Division heads then selected the best
proposals, and the top 21 teams presented their work to the respective property’s executive team. One of the
favorite ideas was to dedicate unused space at Encore Boston Harbor to pop-up retail experiences for unique
local vendors and businesses.
WYNN
NORTH
AMERICA—OUR
PEOPLE
BACK TO TABLE OF CONTENTS
Wynn Resorts 2020 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report Wynn North America 26
Continuing Leadership Development
Although leadership development did not look like it did pre-COVID-19, Wynn continued to provide avenues for
skill enhancement. A leadership development series for supervisors and above took place online instead of in
classrooms. Topics included diversity and inclusion, as well as personal development. All attendees received
monthly leadership newsletters distributed by the Learning and Development team to reinforce and deepen
learning opportunities.
Wynn Resorts also hired executive coach Kerry Sulcowicz to run 16 exclusive sessions for executive and
operations teams at Wynn Las Vegas and Encore Boston Harbor. In total, 71 executives participated in the
sessions. They also received one-on-one coaching either from Wynn Las Vegas president Marilyn Spiegel or
Encore Boston Harbor president Brian Gullbrants. In addition to conventional executive topics, the coaching
sessions also addressed COVID-19-related concerns, as well as strategies for positive leadership during times
of heightened racial tensions.
WYNN
NORTH
AMERICA—OUR
PEOPLE
BACK TO TABLE OF CONTENTS
Wynn Resorts 2020 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report Wynn North America 27
On-site COVID-19 Testing “Green Lights” Events
During the height of the pandemic, Wynn Las Vegas opened an on-site COVID-19 testing facility to provide
rapid test results and build confidence for the return of large-scale events. The only full-time medical testing lab
built and owned by a hospitality company, the custom-built, 3,000-square-foot facility was able to process up
to 7,000 tests per day and produce results within hours. Other labs could only process a few hundred tests with
a turnaround time of more than 24 hours. The facility helped to usher in the return of conventions, meetings,
and large-scale entertainment in Las Vegas. It also benefitted the Las Vegas community by providing testing
for participants in Clark County, Nevada, Public School Athletic programs.
The facility was staffed by Lighthouse Lab Services and utilized technology from Mirimus Clinical Lab. The
Company closed the lab when vaccines became available to the public and we quickly transitioned to the
creation of a full-time on-site vaccination center– also the first of its kind in Las Vegas. The photos above were
taken on-site at the Wynn lab.
WYNN
NORTH
AMERICA—OUR
PEOPLE
BACK TO TABLE OF CONTENTS
Wynn Resorts 2020 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report Wynn North America 28
A Five-Star Vaccination Site
The Las Vegas community began receiving its first COVID-19 vaccines for frontline medical workers at the
end of 2020. By that point, the longstanding partnership Wynn had formed with University Medical Center had
resulted in procuring nearly 25,000 COVID-19 tests for Wynn employees. As the state government extended
vaccinations to seniors and other prioritized workers at the beginning of 2021, Wynn and UMC collaborated
again to create a 5,600-square-foot vaccination site inside Encore’s Brahms and Bach Ballrooms. The UMC
COVID-19 Vaccination Center at Wynn Las Vegas was the first to be located on-site at a resort.
“We offered our Encore property as a vaccination location to help facilitate vaccine distribution as quickly and
efficiently as possible throughout the Las Vegas Valley,” said Wynn Resorts CEO Matt Maddox at the opening
of the site on January 18, 2021. “Our partnership with UMC began with our extensive on-site employee testing
program. Based upon the success of that program with UMC, we look forward to hosting this critical step in our
state’s economic and health recovery.”
Along with other vaccination mega-sites around the Las Vegas community, the site at Wynn Las Vegas helped
the Southern Nevada Health District achieve its goal of administering 45,000 vaccinations each week. With
the capacity to administer hundreds of vaccines every day, UMC staff members at Wynn Las Vegas scheduled
appointments from 7 a.m. to 3 p.m. Monday through Friday. The Wynn Guest Services team helped coordinate
the appointment experience of everyone who visited the property to ensure we upheld our five-star standards
of care. The UMC COVID-19 Vaccination Center at Wynn Las Vegas administered more than 50,000 doses to
eligible Nevada residents.
• As of the publication date of this report, close
to 90-percent of employees at Wynn Las Vegas
have been vaccinated.
• In April 2021, Encore Boston Harbor
opened an on-site vaccination center
to serve the residents of Everett and
the Greater Boston community.
WYNN
NORTH
AMERICA—OUR
PEOPLE
BACK TO TABLE OF CONTENTS
Wynn Resorts 2020 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report Wynn North America 29
K9 and Animal Welfare
The K9 Unit at Wynn Las Vegas earned a Platinum Level accreditation through the International Casino
& Resort Working Dog Association, a third-party audit of procedures and facilities for best practices.
Extensive training is required for K9 staff responsible for animal handling. Handler school, field training with an
experienced handler, and employee shadowing take about six weeks. K9 staff are required to maintain their
training knowledge by passing a third-party detection certification program annually, while also completing at
least 32 hours of continuing education professional training.
Wynn maintains exceptional standards of animal welfare in its K9 program facilities. Our K9 program is housed
in state-of-the-art, climate-controlled living quarters totaling 3,800 square feet. This dedicated space includes
separate areas for grooming and bathing, meal preparation, and outdoor play areas with cool misting during
the summer season. Large individual kennels are cleaned daily and furnished to reduce stress with sound
dampening equipment, auto-filling water bowls, and large beds.
WYNN
NORTH
AMERICA—OUR
PEOPLE
BACK TO TABLE OF CONTENTS
Wynn Resorts 2020 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report Wynn North America 30
Nutrition and health are central to our K9 team. Each K9 receives a comprehensive Health & Dental Insurance
Plan, as well as regular Veterinarian care every six months. On a daily basis, handlers inspect K9s for any signals
of health problems. K9s receive fresh water and consistent high-quality meals, which are approved by a board-
licensed Veterinarian. Our K9s are encouraged to express their natural behaviors during their multiple daily play
times. To ensure the dogs are not overworked, bodily weight, food consumption, and work activity are tracked.
Our K9 operations and procedures work to protect the K9s from fear or distress. Sound dampening equipment
is used throughout the facility, and classical music is played to reduce stress. The use of compulsion training,
choke chains, shock collars, and other harsh training tools are prohibited. Instead, trainers receive extensive
training and employ positive reinforcement training techniques using operant conditioning methods.
To raise awareness with hotel guests on how to behave toward K9s while they are working, K9s wear harnesses
labeled “DO NOT PET.” K9 handlers communicate with guests and are easily identifiable by wearing uniforms
labeled “Wynn Las Vegas K9 Handler.” In addition to daily efforts, the K9 trainers host Training & Operations
classes, offered to the public through the Wynn Master Class Series. This class educates the public on how the
working K9s are trained and operate.
WYNN
NORTH
AMERICA—OUR
PEOPLE
BACK TO TABLE OF CONTENTS
Wynn Resorts 2020 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report Wynn North America 31
BACK TO TABLE OF CONTENTS
Wynn North America Workforce Highlights
Wynn North America Wynn North America 2020 Gender at Levels of Leadership
2020 Gender in the Workforce
99.9%
The average hourly
of employees in
Wynn North America 2020 Turnover Rates
wage for Wynn
Wynn North
Voluntary Turnover Rate 9% North America
America earned
Involuntary Turnover Rate 10% was $27.71 USD
above minimum
in 2020.
wage in 2020.
Wynn North America 2020 34% of Wynn Resorts
Employee Age Distribution Executives in the U.S. are
FEMALE.
14% of Wynn
employees in the
U.S. held positions of
30% of Wynn Resorts
management
Executives in the U.S. represent
in 2020.
MINORITY ETHNICITIES.
37% Wynn Resorts is developing and
of Wynn employees
promoting DIVERSITY in its Wynn employees in
in the U.S. were
executive leadership pipeline, the U.S. received more
covered by
with 54% of managers being than 3,500 HOURS of
collective bargaining
ethnically or racially diverse. COVID-19 safety training
agreements in 2020.
before reopening in
June 2020.
Wynn Resorts 2020 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report Wynn North America 32
WYNN
NORTH
AMERICA—OUR
PEOPLE
Wynn North America
Our Communities
Corporate Community Message
As champions of the destinations we serve, Wynn Resorts invests
heavily in enhancing the quality of life in our home communities.
To this end, we focus on leveraging our core expertise in hospitality
and development to create community engagement and social-
impact programs that truly take care of others. Our mission is
twofold: to build stronger and more resilient communities that
our employees can proudly call home, and to foster our
reputation as world-class centers of tourism our guests
will travel the world to experience.
Combining philanthropy with citywide economic and infrastructure
Monica Moradkhan,
development has become our community relations calling card. Wynn Resorts VP of Community Relations
And because each community we operate in functions with its own
unique framework, we design customized community-development projects to solve specific social challenges.
To ensure these projects work better for more people and drive long-term inclusive growth, we partner with a
spectrum of local civic leaders to identify financial, supply chain, and operational gaps for Wynn Resorts to fill
where it matters the most. We continue to rely on these essential relationships with community leaders to help
guide our extensive nonprofit work as we lift up the underserved, as well as mobilize immediate relief efforts
during times of crisis or natural disaster.
In many ways, 2020 was the ultimate test of our commitment. Every person, no matter his or her circumstance,
shared a collective stress. And as the months in quarantine increased, so did the need for even the most
basic of supplies—including, for many, where their next meal was coming from. This need grew into a food-
insecurity epidemic in both Las Vegas and Boston, eventually reaching levels that were unheard of just months
before. Although our Company gifted more than $4 million in products, supplies, and funds to a wide range of
healthcare and civic organizations responding to the pandemic’s devastating impact, fighting hunger became
one of our most prevalent causes, with nearly $1 million in food and meals donated. We will continue to combat
this problem month after month for the foreseeable future.
Our Company’s legacy as agents of change is only made possible, however, with the collective spirit of service
in the hearts of our dedicated employees. Collectively they have inspired our corporate culture of giving for the
past 15 years, bettering our home communities for generations to come, and turning feelings of helplessness
into a more hopeful future for countless people in need. One of our Company’s guiding principles has always
been to “care about everyone and everything,” a promise we are proud to fulfill every day in ways that extend far
beyond the walls of our resorts.
WYNN
NORTH
AMERICA—OUR
COMMUNITIES
BACK TO TABLE OF CONTENTS
Wynn Resorts 2020 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report Wynn North America 34
Heart Meets Action
During the COVID-19 shutdown of March, April, and May 2020, Wynn employees—like millions of people
around the globe—wanted to find ways to support their communities. However, options were limited. They
could no longer volunteer in person, even as this had always been a hallmark of Wynn’s charitable efforts.
Still, the employees would not be deterred. Wynn’s Community Relations team quickly launched a virtual
volunteering program to help employees stay active and engaged. The “Give 15 Minutes” campaign encouraged
employees to choose from a large menu of short but impactful tasks, such as check-in calls to seniors, letter
writing, student mentoring, food delivery, or translation assistance. Virtual volunteering continued beyond
the three-month shutdown, and Wynn employees logged 15,758 remote volunteering hours for more than 40
organizations through the end of 2020.
A Good Samaritan Approach
Recognizing that nonprofits cannot address every community need, or even channel all the generosity of our
employees, Wynn launched another new initiative in 2020: The Good Samaritan program. It recognized and
encouraged all that Wynn employees do to serve their communities outside of the Company’s partnerships
with nonprofit organizations.
For instance, instead of just reading books to students through Wynn Las Vegas’ partnership with Peterson
Elementary School, employees could read books to children and friends virtually. Or instead of participating in
a cleanup with Get Outdoors Nevada, they could pick up litter in their own neighborhoods or local parks.
Specific guidelines explained what types of activities employees could report as Good Samaritan Volunteering.
Community Relations staff reviewed each submission for approval. In total, Wynn employees performed 2,639
hours of Good Samaritan actions in 2020, and the program is now a permanent option for volunteering due to
its success and popularity.
Employee-led Initiatives
The challenges of 2020 also inspired Wynn employees to identify and rally around several large projects.
Wynn Las Vegas employees shared patterns, materials, and supplies to sew more than 4,000 face masks for
hospitals, nursing homes, homeless shelters, law enforcement, and military personnel. Materials and labor were
donated by employees from the Front Desk, Table Games, Le Rêve Costume & Wardrobe, and Housekeeping.
Together, Table Games employees at Wynn Las Vegas pitched in $3,400 to purchase supplies for hundreds
of “cheer baskets” filled with feel-good items like candy, juice, granola bars, mints, and gum. They also added
handmade items like masks and dried fruit before delivering the baskets to more than 100 hospitals, police
stations, fire stations, and home-bound seniors.
WYNN
NORTH
AMERICA—OUR
COMMUNITIES
BACK TO TABLE OF CONTENTS
Wynn Resorts 2020 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report Wynn North America 35
At Encore Boston Harbor, Table Games employees organized a fundraiser to address the shortage of personal
protective equipment (PPE) for local doctors, nurses, and other hospital staff. More than 70 dealers contributed
$7,580 to help five Boston-area hospitals, and the amount was doubled by Wynn Resorts’ Corporate Matching
Gifts program.
Similarly, Encore Boston Harbor’s Food and Beverage team came together to raise more than $22,000 with the
Corporate Matching Gifts program to support Everett Grace Food Pantry’s COVID-19 relief efforts. “I love how
involved our company is in our local community,” said Sara Campos, Food and Beverage Marketing Manager
for Encore Boston Harbor. “I believe at one point in life, everyone is going to need help from others. Every dollar
counts; every act matters.”
We’re Stronger Together
Finally, in 2020 Wynn Community Relations also launched the Stronger Together Collective to enhance
resources and networking for our nonprofit partners and to provide a platform for thought-provoking dialogue.
The program consisted of carefully curated newsletters and programming, such as webinars and virtual round
tables on topics like encouraging volunteerism, fundraising, team leadership, and development.
Wynn Resorts Global Volunteer Hours
Despite the constraints to gathering and in-person volunteering in 2020, our employees continued to give their time to the
community in ways that were above and beyond expectation during a global pandemic.
WYNN
NORTH
AMERICA—OUR
COMMUNITIES
BACK TO TABLE OF CONTENTS
Wynn Resorts 2020 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report Wynn North America 36
Giving in Response
In 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic disrupted life as we knew it and created tremendous need across our
communities. Wanting to do our part, Wynn Resorts gave to dozens of organizations requesting supplies and
funds to assist medical workers, first responders, food banks, shelters and more. In total, we gifted more than
$5 million in cash and in-kind donations to organizations responding to the pandemic’s devastating impact.
To help healthcare workers, Wynn’s purchasing department procured and donated 245,000 N95-equivalent
respirator masks to hospitals throughout Las Vegas and Boston. The Company also provided 700,000 surgical
masks, 500,000 pairs of medical gloves, and more than 60,000 toiletries to hospitals, nursing facilities, law
enforcement, and National Guard troops.
When National Nurses and National Hospital Weeks took place amid the shutdown, Wynn’s Food & Beverage
team demonstrated our appreciation by baking 10,000 cookies, which were then delivered to facilities
throughout our communities by Wynn volunteers. Similarly, Wynn offered a complimentary one-night stay to
10,000 of our nation’s first responders in appreciation of their selfless work.
More Than Just Treats
In the first few weeks of the COVID-19 shutdown in March 2020, Wynn donated 175 pallets of food valued at
more than $800,000 to 15 food banks in Las Vegas and three in Boston. Throughout that month, Wynn Las
Vegas also partnered with Three Square Food Bank to donate more than 43,000 pounds of groceries at four
elementary schools in the community.
Likewise, our chefs worked with volunteers to prepare and deliver thousands of ready-to-eat meals to hard-
working nonprofit partners. In all, they provided:
● • 5,075 meals to SHARE Village for food-insecure residents in Las Vegas
● • 280 meals to Ronald McDonald House Charities of Greater Las Vegas
● • 644 meals to The Shade Tree - a shelter for women and children
● • 6,000 meals to Massachusetts Emergency Management Agency
● • 14,000 meals to Catholic Charities of Southern Nevada to serve to the Las Vegas
homeless and food-insecure population
● • 1,225 meals to the Las Vegas location of U.S. Vets
The Wynn Employee Foundation (WEF) is a charitable giving foundation funded and managed by employees
of Wynn. Wynn Resorts matches all WEF donations. Despite 2020’s economic uncertainty, the Foundation
raised $505,949 and gave $235,000 to seven nonprofits in Las Vegas and Boston that focus on food
insecurity and combating domestic violence.
WYNN
NORTH
AMERICA—OUR
COMMUNITIES
BACK TO TABLE OF CONTENTS
Wynn Resorts 2020 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report Wynn North America 37
Like almost all live entertainment, Wynn Las Vegas’s show, Le Rêve - The Dream, had to shut down. However,
it was still able to distribute more than $250,000 raised through its $1 for Charity program, which began in
2019. Teach for America used the funds to create a virtual new-teacher induction and on-boarding program.
Opportunity Village, meanwhile, applied the funds it received to help shift the organization’s services to in-home
nursing, job coaching, behavioral support, and other needs.
Wynn Goes All In
In April 2020, professional athletes, pop stars, actors and CEOs began “challenging” one another via social
media to imagine unique ways to raise funds for food insecurity caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. The so-
called ALL IN Challenge was created by Michael Rubin, CEO of the sports merchandise company Fanatics and
owner of the NBA’s Philadelphia 76ers.
Rubin himself challenged Wynn Resorts CEO Matt Maddox, who stepped up with the most exclusive Wynn Las
Vegas VIP package ever produced. “I accept the ALL IN challenge, and I am ‘all in’ to help defeat food insecurity
in America,” Maddox said. “Wynn Las Vegas may be closed, but it won’t always be, and when it’s time to come
back, I believe Las Vegas will be bigger, bolder, and more audacious than ever. We’re offering a once-in-a-
lifetime experience at Wynn that is an invitation to become Las Vegas royalty.”
Wynn’s VIP package—valued at more than $250,000—included a private jet for six, a stay in an invitation-only
Villa, and the opportunity to meet a Wynn headliner. It was offered as both a sweepstakes and an auction for
two winners, and the package ultimately raised more than $722,000 for Meals on Wheels, No Kid Hungry,
and America’s Food Fund.
These group photos without face coverings were taken prior to COVID-19 restrictions.
WYNN
NORTH
AMERICA—OUR
COMMUNITIES
BACK TO TABLE OF CONTENTS
Wynn Resorts 2020 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report Wynn North America 38
Unwavering Community Connections
The COVID-19 pandemic disrupted much in life and business operations, but Wynn’s commitment to ongoing
community initiatives remained unchanged. In September 2020, just three months after reopening with new
health and safety protocols, Wynn resumed in-person volunteer efforts with social distancing, masks, and other
precautions. We were eager to get back to giving back.
That in-person volunteering, along with virtual volunteer hours, drove the continued success of the Dollars for
Doers program, which was launched at Wynn Las Vegas in 2019. The program matches cash grants to Wynn
employee volunteer hours at schools, senior centers, and other approved nonprofit organizations. In 2020,
we quadrupled the maximum grant amount to $1,000 per employee per year for up to 100 hours of personal
volunteer time. Plus, the program was expanded to include the community service of Encore Boston Harbor
employees.
The Wynn Employee Foundation’s Scholarship Program was extended to Encore Boston Harbor employees
and their families in Fall 2019. One of the first recipients awarded in Spring 2020 was Zhihua Zhu, a freshman
at the University of Massachusetts Boston who is majoring in computer science. Zhihua’s father, Bin Zhu, is an
assistant chef at Encore’s Red 8 restaurant. The scholarship program provides up to $7,500 per year for tuition
and other qualified academic expenses to employees or their children. To date, the Foundation has supported
25 students at post-secondary state institutions with a total of $280,192 in scholarships.
2nd Annual Giving Week
For the second consecutive year, Wynn Las Vegas leveraged the national giving movement that has emerged
at the beginning of the holiday season. Instead of simply encouraging “Giving Tuesday” in the week following
Thanksgiving, we activated dozens of our company assets to host “Giving Week.” Highlights included:
• The Giving Tuesday Wynn Golf Benefit,
Wynn North America Employee Contributions
which raised $11,500 for Catholic to the Wynn Employee Foundation ($USD)
Charities of Southern Nevada.
• 114 volunteers assisted in packing 2,812
produce bags for Three Square’s
Grocery Giveaways.
• Wynn employees decorated and wrote
more than 200 holiday cards for
Shade Tree, Opportunity Village,
Catholic Charities of Southern Nevada,
and Nevada Senior Services.
WYNN
NORTH
AMERICA—OUR
COMMUNITIES
BACK TO TABLE OF CONTENTS
Wynn Resorts 2020 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report Wynn North America 39
• A master class, led by Wynn’s K9 team and handlers, sold out and raised $1,200 for Heart’s
Alive Village.
• Wynn Las Vegas Floral hosted a Holiday Wreath
Decorating class for volunteers to make wreaths
for Nevada Senior Services.
• The Wynn Recipe Collection book launched and
sold more than 300 copies, with proceeds
benefiting the Wynn Employee Foundation
Community Grant Fund.
• Employees gave 3,924 items to the donation drive
benefiting Catholic Charities of Southern Nevada,
Nevada Homeless Alliance, and Project 150.
• Wynn Las Vegas donated the proceeds from our
signature “Singing Frog” beer, which raised more
than $30,000 for Three Square food bank.
• Encore Boston Harbor hosted an on-property Bake Sale, which allowed us to donate more than
$5,000 to support the Pine Street Inn, an organization that serves the homeless population
in Boston.
• Wynn Macau and Wynn Palace offered a series of events beginning in November. They had 339
volunteers and students participate by drawing Christmas cards, knitting scarves, creating
denim patchwork, and making Christmas tree and food packages.
Giving Week was a microcosm of how Wynn’s employees shined through creativity and dedication in a difficult
year. “More than ever, this year inspired us to find creative ways to utilize all of the talents and assets across
our organization to better serve community needs,” explained Monica Moradkhan, Wynn Resorts VP of
Community Relations.
New Initiatives in 2020
The Nonprofit Leadership Fellows Program is one of several new community-relations initiatives launched in
2020. The 10-month program is tailored for a small cohort of nonprofit leaders to learn from experienced Wynn
executives during monthly round-table discussions. The first cohort launched in September 2020 and included
WYNN
NORTH
AMERICA—OUR
COMMUNITIES
BACK TO TABLE OF CONTENTS
Wynn Resorts 2020 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report Wynn North America 40
12 nonprofit leaders from across Wynn’s charitable giving pillars: education, vibrant communities, and cultural
enrichment. The topics explore the following:
Leadership Excellence and Values Leading Strategically
Organizational Goals and Culture Innovation and Resiliency
Brand and Digital Marketing Fina nce and Accounting
Internal and External Communication B o a r d D e v e l o p m e n t
In 2020, Wynn executives also began volunteering their time to Executive Class Visits. In partnership with
Leaders in Training, the Fulfillment Fund, and the UNLV Harrah College of Hospitality, our executives virtually
visit high school and university students to provide career and life advice. For the university visits, we schedule
executives who are experts on particular class topics, such as Organizational Behavior in Applied Service
Industry, Data Analysis and Hospitality Service Management, to share their insights and knowledge.
UNLV Executive Scholar Program
Wynn also gave $250,000 to the University of Nevada Las Vegas’ IGI Leadership Diversity Initiative fund,
which includes support for the Young Executive Scholars Hospitality & Tourism Program (YES). Each summer,
rising stars in the Clark County School District are invited to participate in the four-week summer program to
discover managerial and executive-level career opportunities in the global hospitality tourism industry.
Wynn Resorts Global Donations and Sponsorships Given ($USD)
In the face of a global pandemic, which affected every aspect of our business, we continued to take care
of our communities with material and financial donations.
WYNN
NORTH
AMERICA—OUR
COMMUNITIES
BACK TO TABLE OF CONTENTS
Wynn Resorts 2020 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report Wynn North America 41
Preventing Human Trafficking
Human trafficking is a global issue that requires local efforts to combat. The hospitality industry must play
an important role in helping to prevent it. At Wynn Resorts, we rallied around the issue in 2020, developing
new training programs and security procedures that are being implemented in 2021 in order to do our part to
combat this terrible crime.
Wynn Las Vegas drew on the program developed at Encore Boston Harbor, which partnered with My Life My
Choice, a Boston-based nonprofit, to educate every Encore Boston Harbor employee on the topic before the
resort opened in 2019. My Life My Choice continued to provide refresher trainings to Encore Boston Harbor
employees throughout 2020, including a webinar for supervisors on the persistence of the practice of human
trafficking during the COVID-19 pandemic shutdown.
“At My Life My Choice, we have been impressed with the unique investment that Encore Boston
Harbor has made in preventing commercial sexual exploitation from happening within their
property. They have showed continued interest in our partnership by bringing us on-site to
train their staff, train virtually, and co-create relevant materials. We look forward to our
continued partnership,” said Lisa Goldblatt Grace, Executive Director of My Life My Choice.
In expanding to Las Vegas, Wynn has partnered with the nonprofit iEmpathize to produce training videos
and virtual curriculum that will be required of all Wynn North America employees in 2021. The purpose of the
training is for employees in both guest-facing roles and back-of-house operations to develop an empathetic,
victim-centric awareness of the risks of human trafficking. This will help employees spot suspicious behaviors
and take the quickest and safest procedures for alerting Wynn security. These procedures were already put
into action in early 2021, when Wynn Las Vegas participated in a Las Vegas Strip-wide search for missing
minors during Super Bowl Weekend.
“Human traffickers exploit people and places. iEmpathize equips strategic sectors in
communities to safely and effectively respond to human trafficking. The hospitality industry
is uniquely positioned to recognize and report this heinous crime when and where it’s
happening,” says Brad Riley, CEO of iEmpathize. “We are encouraged by Wynn making this
issue a passion and priority by co-creating training for Wynn employees, the industry at
large, and ultimately making a difference in the lives of victims worldwide.”
WYNN
NORTH
AMERICA—OUR
COMMUNITIES
BACK TO TABLE OF CONTENTS
Wynn Resorts 2020 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report Wynn North America 42
Human Rights Policy
To align all existing company policies under the global framework of Human Rights in business, Wynn
established a broader Human Rights Policy for the Company in 2020. The policy formalizes the core principles
that guide our procedures and partnerships, using an approach based on the Universal Declaration of Human
Rights and the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights.
The scope of the new Human Rights Policy commits Wynn to:
• Diversity in workforce and equal opportunity employment
• Freedom of association and collective bargaining
• Labor practices in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations
• A workplace free of harassment and discrimination
• Condemn human trafficking or forced labor in accordance with the International Labour Organization (ILO)
Forced Labour Convention
• Minimum age requirements to eliminate child labor
• Ensure workplace health and safety for all employees
• Adhere to environmental regulations and extend responsible practices down our supply chain
This policy ensures the freedom of association and right to choose a collective bargaining representative,
if desired, in accordance with the National Labor Relations Act, without fear of reprisal, intimidation, or
harassment. Wynn is committed to investigating concerns of employees and taking action to uphold these
fundamental human rights.
For grievances or reporting violations of Company policies, employees have structured reporting options,
including a confidential hotline. Employees will not be subject to retaliation or adverse employment action
because of a good faith report of suspected misconduct or for assisting in any investigation of suspected
misconduct. This information is included in our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics.
Discrimination or harassment are not tolerated in the Company by any employee, supplier, or customer. The
Preventing Harassment and Discrimination Policy supports equal opportunity in employment to all persons
regardless of race, color, national origin, sex, pregnancy or pregnancy-related conditions, actual or perceived
sexual orientation or gender identity/expression, age, religion, active or retired veteran status, genetic
information or ancestry, disability, history of disability or perceived disability, or any other basis protected by
federal, state, or local law or ordinance or regulation (Protected Characteristics). This policy also prohibits
harassment and discrimination in employment, including hiring, promotion, assignment, discharge, benefits,
compensation, and training.
Guest service and professionalism are upheld to the highest standard in our operations, and inappropriate
WYNN
NORTH
AMERICA—OUR
COMMUNITIES
BACK TO TABLE OF CONTENTS
Wynn Resorts 2020 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report Wynn North America 43
behavior toward employees is not tolerated. Our employees receive guidance and support in responding to
disrespectful guest behavior, with reporting structures in place to ensure each situation is handled with an
appropriate response that upholds our standards of conduct and workplace safety. This information is detailed
in the Preventing Harassment and Discrimination Policy and in the Employee Interaction with Guests and Other
Third Parties Policy.
The Company continuously extends our standards down our supply chain to reduce our environmental impact
as we move closer to achieving our goal of operating zero carbon, zero waste resorts. It is important for our
suppliers to uphold our same standards of labor rights, working conditions, and environmental compliance. Our
Anti-Human Trafficking Policy prohibits trafficking from our entire supply chain, including human trafficking of
any age, involuntary servitude or slavery, or sex trafficking.
Wynn fosters an inclusive culture that respects and values the diversity among its employees, guests, and
communities. Respect is central to cultural exchange in our business activities, including traditional livelihoods,
indigenous peoples, and cultural heritage sites. Our business activities do not engage with UNESCO or World
Monuments Fund cultural heritage sites. Should our status change, information will be published in our annual
ESG Report.
Because the Company goes beyond labor practices to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we excel
in building a workplace that attracts and retains employees during turbulent times. These practices include
paying livable and above-minimum wages, free online wellness coaching, competitive benefits and healthcare
options, and transparent staffing decisions that retain as many employees as possible during reductions or
restructuring. Information on payment practices is published annually in the Company’s ESG Report, and
employees have access to our workforce adjustment practices in the Furlough and Recall Policy.
For employees with dependents and families, Wynn offers a variety of programs that support work-life balance.
As a covered employer under the Family Medical Leave Act (FMLA), Wynn provides unpaid, job-protected
leave to eligible employees for a maximum of 12 work weeks in a 12-month period for reasons covered under the
FMLA. Employees have formal options for special leave in situations of pandemic-related sickness, mandatory
education-related events, or school-related emergencies. For employees with growing families, up to six weeks
of paid parental leave is available upon the birth or placement of a child. The company financed programs for
school-aged children of employees, which allowed them to attend virtual-learning centers while schools were
closed during the pandemic.
WYNN
NORTH
AMERICA—OUR
COMMUNITIES
BACK TO TABLE OF CONTENTS
Wynn Resorts 2020 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report Wynn North America 44
Wynn North America
Our Planet
Corporate Sustainability Message
To protect the future of luxury hospitality, we must take
an active role in protecting our planet. As a Fortune 500
company and internationally recognized brand, Wynn
Resorts understands its responsibility to address the
complex environmental issues facing our entire industry.
Through the guiding principles of our global sustainability
program, known as Goldleaf, we continuously accelerate
our progress toward our goal of leaving the planet in
better condition than we found it.
As we experienced the depths of a global pandemic
Erik Hansen, Wynn Resorts Chief Sustainability Officer
throughout 2020, we were reminded, yet again, how
connected each one of us truly is, and that we are all sharing planet Earth. It is more important than ever to
defend and protect the one irreplaceable natural resource we all call home. Through our efforts, the direct
environmental impact of each of our resort operations is measurable. Armed with the knowledge provided
by our internal sustainability research, we took considerable steps in 2020 to continue limiting Wynn Resorts’
environmental footprint. We were able to enact several new eco-friendly innovations globally this year,
especially in the fields of recycling and waste management, during a time when single-use items remained
critical to keeping our guests and employees safe. Despite this influx of material, we are proud to share that
Encore Boston Harbor achieved 100-percent landfill diversion during its first full year of operation,
while Wynn Las Vegas increased its diversion from the landfill compared to 2019.
Our ultimate corporate goal is aggressive, but achievable: to operate zero carbon, zero waste resorts.
Every year we move closer to realizing this objective by building on past successes, anticipating future needs,
and pioneering best-in-class new programs that are engineered to exceed government-regulated standards.
With a circular approach that encompasses our entire supply chain, we constantly examine ways to reduce
each of our resorts’ environmental impact in our Company’s focus areas of renewable energy, water
conservation, waste diversion, recycling, single-use plastic abatement, responsible food sourcing, and
natural habitat protection. To promote the adoption of sustainability measures by like-minded organizations,
we consistently disseminate our environmental solutions through transparent annual reporting and relevant
information-sharing activities across a number of sectors.
In the years to come, we will continue to think critically about how we can protect our planet. The answers
to this question shape decision-making across every aspect of our business, which in turn creates real,
immediate, and meaningful impact for our employees, business partners, and shareholders—but most
importantly for our guests, who place their trust in us to deliver a sustainable luxury experience without
sacrificing the Five-Star service that only Wynn Resorts can provide.
WYNN
NORTH
AMERICA—OUR
PLANET
BACK TO TABLE OF CONTENTS
Wynn Resorts 2020 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report Wynn North America 46
Wynn Targets Net-Zero Operations
In the same way the COVID-19 pandemic required a global response, climate change and environmental
sustainability also require bold commitments and even bolder actions. We believe it is our duty to help alleviate
the negative impacts on our world, and have made public commitments to several significant initiatives
designed to confront the global threat of climate change, including:
1
Net-Zero by 2050
To reduce or offset all carbon dioxide (CO2) produced by
our operations no later than 2050.
2
Carbon Dioxide Emissions peak by 2030
To stop and reverse year-over-year growth of operational
carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions by 2030.
3
50% renewable energy procurement by 2030
To increase Wynn’s supply of renewable energy produced or
procured to at least 50-percent of total consumption by 2030.
WYNN
NORTH
AMERICA—OUR
PLANET
BACK TO TABLE OF CONTENTS
Wynn Resorts 2020 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report Wynn North America 47
Our commitments are aligned with the recommendations made by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
Change (IPCC) for limiting global warming to below 1.5 degrees Celsius, as referenced in the 2015 Paris
Climate Accord.
“We continuously invest in the creation of first-in-industry programs
that increase our energy efficiency while reducing the environmental footprint
of our resorts. Guided by the science that supports these aggressive sustainability
goals, we will take a full product lifecycle approach that will grow to encompass
our entire global supply chain,” said Matt Maddox, CEO of Wynn Resorts.
Building on Past Innovations
To achieve these climate goals, Wynn will build on the successful planning, implementation, and expansion
of the numerous large-scale environmental projects in place to reduce the harmful effects of climate
change, including:
Wynn Solar at Stillwater – In 2018, Wynn installed one of the 10 largest corporate solar sites of the year,
featuring 20 megawatts (MW) of generating capacity.
Rooftop Solar in Las Vegas – Wynn’s Las Vegas properties include 2 MW of rooftop solar panels, which
work in concert with the Stillwater project to help supply up to 75-percent of our peak energy needs from
the sun.
Boston Microgrid Innovation – Encore Boston Harbor is the first integrated resort in the U.S. with an
on-site microgrid that balances solar energy production, combined heat and power co-generation,
and battery storage.
Encore Boston Harbor Site Remediation – Wynn Resorts turned a polluted industrial site along Boston’s
Mystic River into a thriving riverfront environment where wildlife is flourishing, giving the local community a
renewed waterfront greenspace to enjoy.
Waste Reduction Overhauls – Operations at Encore Boston Harbor were designed to send zero waste to
landfills, and Wynn Las Vegas continues to replace single-use plastics with sustainable alternatives while also
implementing single-stream recycling.
“The sustainability issues we prioritize are backed by an understanding of exactly how we directly and indirectly
impact the environment with our current operations,” said Erik Hansen, Chief Sustainability Officer of Wynn
Resorts. “This includes an enterprise-wide ability to reduce our carbon dioxide emissions, energy use, and
waste diversion, helping us cater to the needs of our guests. We deploy innovative sustainability initiatives that
range from the targeted to the revolutionary, such as analyzing climate patterns for optimal water use on the
golf course and creating an on-site microgrid with multiple energy resources.”
WYNN
NORTH
AMERICA—OUR
PLANET
BACK TO TABLE OF CONTENTS
Wynn Resorts 2020 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report Wynn North America 48
Returns on Renewable Strategies
Mitigating climate change requires a focused and deliberate migration to renewable and sustainable energy
resources, which is why Taking Action is one of the four pillars of our sustainability strategy. Over the last five
years, Wynn has made significant investments in renewable energy projects that decrease the environmental
impact of our energy consumption and give us greater control over our energy procurement portfolio.
Wynn’s two North American properties each have distinct renewable energy strategies and projects advancing
our zero-carbon goals. In Nevada, where open space and sun are plentiful, Wynn Las Vegas has gone all-in on
solar energy. In 2018, we worked with Enel Green Power to build the 20-megawatt (MW), 160-acre Wynn Solar
Facility in Stillwater, Nevada, and to install more than 1 MW of rooftop solar on our Las Vegas resort. With the
expansion of the Wynn Las Vegas Convention Center in 2019, we seized the opportunity to install additional
rooftop solar panels, bringing our total solar capacity in Nevada to more than 22 MW.
By the end of 2020, our Nevada solar projects had generated a total of more than 60,000 megawatt hours
(MWh), equivalent to powering a home for 5,000 years or saving more than 93 million pounds of CO2 from
emission into the atmosphere.
WYNN
NORTH
AMERICA—OUR
PLANET
BACK TO TABLE OF CONTENTS
Wynn Resorts 2020 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report Wynn North America 49
Encore’s 100% Renewable Solution
To reach 100-percent renewable energy status, Encore Boston Harbor utilizes 1 MW of rooftop solar, 3 MW
of ultra-efficient natural gas-fired CHP co-generation, 4 MW/8 MWh on-site battery storage, and Green-e
Certified renewable energy credit purchasing. The on-site energy systems are linked together in a state-of-the-
art microgrid that balances power supply with both the needs of the resort and the stability of the larger New
England power grid.
Encore’s microgrid not only provides clean and reliable power to the resort, but also enables it to participate in
the demand response programs of the region’s major utilities and grid operators. During times of high energy
demand, the utility signals Encore’s microgrid to discharge energy stored in its batteries, thereby reducing the
need for local utilities to fire up additional fossil fuel powered generators or build additional infrastructure to
meet peak demand.
Massachusetts’ Alternative Energy Portfolio Standard also incentivizes systems like Encore Boston Harbor’s
combined heat and power co-generator (CHP), technology which helps the community transition to larger
percentages of electricity from renewable energy. On-site CHP is well-suited to large facilities like Encore
Boston Harbor, which have high annual hours of operation and continuous thermal load. In these instances,
on-site CHP is more efficient than transmission power and provides great reliability. It increases the overall
efficiency of the grid and reduces the need for additional utility-owned power generation. Encore Boston
Harbor’s co-generation dispatched more than 19 million kWh in 2020.
With one of the first microgrids of this scale at an integrated resort in the region, Encore Boston Harbor actively
shares data and lessons with the Massachusetts Department of Energy Resources (DOER) in an effort to
expand the benefits of co-generation and battery storage in the state. In the future, we will continue our
efforts to collaborate with local energy providers and expand our renewal efforts so we can better meet the
requirements to combat climate change.
WYNN
NORTH
AMERICA—OUR
PLANET
BACK TO TABLE OF CONTENTS
Wynn Resorts 2020 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report Wynn North America 50
Wynn North America Environmental Data
Wynn Las Vegas Carbon Dioxide Emissions by Scope
(Metric Tons CO2)
Wynn North
America recycled 4,123
pounds of soap in 2020.
Wynn North America Water Consumption Wynn North America Energy Use Intensity
(Gallons x 1,000) EUI Ratio (kBtu/SqFt)
Wynn North America Power Consumption by Energy Type
1 1, 2 1
Non-renewable Energy Renewable Total Consumed
MWh (Gigajoules) MWh (Gigajoules) MWh (Gigajoules)
1 Total 2020 electricity consumption for Wynn North America included both Wynn Las Vegas and Encore Boston Harbor.
2 The Wynn Solar Facility took an unscheduled maintenance outage in 2020, resulting in decreased annual output.
Wynn Las Vegas diverted Encore Boston Harbor diverted
38% of waste from the landfill 100% of waste from the landfill
in 2020. in 2020.
WYNN
NORTH
AMERICA—OUR
PLANET
BACK TO TABLE OF CONTENTS
Wynn Resorts 2020 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report Wynn North America 51
Waste Management Programs
The COVID-19 pandemic has been a challenge to typical operations in many ways, especially with regard to
responsible waste management. While Wynn Las Vegas was replacing many single-use plastic items with
reusable alternatives in 2019, in 2020 single-use items remained critical to upholding the health and safety
standards that keep our guests and employees safe.
For example, single-use sanitation items became essential to creating a safe and worry-free guest experience
during the COVID-19 pandemic. Our June 2020 reopening plans required that we provided proper sanitation,
and all Wynn properties are still doing more than ever before to facilitate a safe guest experience. In
conjunction, as Wynn goes above and beyond for our guests, we are also striving to minimize and responsibly
manage single-use sanitation waste at our resorts. We believe both guest safety and environmental
responsibility are critical to our future.
Landfill Diversion
Despite the challenges created by the pandemic, Encore Boston Harbor achieved 100-percent landfill
diversion in its first full year of operation. The resort’s comprehensive waste-management infrastructure
employs recycling, composting, and waste-to-energy conversion to ensure no waste goes to landfill.
With fewer waste-management resources available, the waste-management market in Nevada is less mature
than in Massachusetts. However, in 2020, Wynn Las Vegas began a new partnership with RENUoil of America
to develop custom solutions for increasing the resort’s waste-diversion rate. This local, family-owned business
specializes in on-site recycling and manages all waste and special projects for Wynn Las Vegas.
WYNN
NORTH
AMERICA—OUR
PLANET
BACK TO TABLE OF CONTENTS
Wynn Resorts 2020 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report Wynn North America 52
Innovative Product Partnerships
Wynn Resorts’ waste-management partnerships aren’t limited to only end-of-cycle service providers. Wynn
actively seeks partnerships with innovative brands manufacturing products that offer unique experiences to
our guests, while also lowering the environmental impact found in more conventional options.
Proud Source Water is one such supplier. Wynn Las Vegas has partnered with Proud Source to procure the
highest quality water in a sustainable vessel in lieu of plastic water bottles. Proud Source water is bottled via
gravity feed directly below a Rocky Mountain natural spring in Mackay, Idaho. Proud Source’s guiding principle
is to leave the planet a better place than they found it, while also maintaining clear goals for zero waste
operations, net-zero energy, and corporate giving. In addition, the company has achieved B-Corp certification
and uses only aluminum bottles and caps to enable high-value material recycling and a fresh drinking
experience—which is better for guests and better for the planet.
“We’re thrilled to partner with Wynn on their efforts to educate consumers on sustainability, and the importance
recycling can play in helping the planet,” says CJ Pennington, President and Co-Founder of Proud Source
Water. “At Proud Source, we’re committed to bottling the highest quality spring water in a superior sustainable
package, and aluminum is one of the most easily recycled options available, offering a simple way for Wynn
guests to make a big difference when it comes to keeping plastic out of our oceans and landfills.”
WYNN
NORTH
AMERICA—OUR
PLANET
BACK TO TABLE OF CONTENTS
Wynn Resorts 2020 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report Wynn North America 53
Wynn Macau,
Limited
BACK TO TABLE OF CONTENTS
2020 Global ESG Program
The core values and beliefs that guide the corporate culture of excellence at our North American resorts
extend to Wynn Macau and Wynn Palace, both considered shining examples of Five-Star luxury located in
China’s prestigious Greater Bay Area. As Wynn Resorts remains united under one global ESG mission, our
Macau resorts comply with local laws and procedures that are unique to their operations, while honoring
historic Asian cultural, artistic, and hospitality traditions.
For more information on how Wynn Macau and Wynn Palace have demonstrated an inspiring resiliency
throughout the challenges of 2020 while also achieving ESG initiatives specific to employee engagement,
community impact, and care for our planet, please click here.
WYNN
MACAU
LIMITED
Wynn Resorts 2020 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report Wynn Macau Limited 55
Corporate
Governance
Corporate Governance Message
With 22 Forbes Travel Guide Five-Star hotels, spas, and restaurants across our global portfolio, Wynn Resorts
holds the most Five-Star awards of any independent hotel company in the world. For our dedicated team of
professionals who provide this level of service excellence to our guests, their work is more than a career; it’s a
calling. Through effective leadership and rigorous corporate oversight, the Wynn Resorts Board and Executive
team take seriously their duty to protect and enhance our remarkable corporate culture as we aim to push the
entire hospitality industry to new heights, year after year.
We evolve our Company’s legacy of progress by continually enhancing our operational structures, processes,
and controls to support and promote ethical behavior across every sector of our business. Over the past
several years, the Wynn Resorts Board and Executive team have been reinvigorated with a new composition of
industry experience and leadership skills that better reflect the progressive and forward-focused direction our
Company is headed. We have also strengthened our proactive engagement with shareholders to gain valuable
insight and new perspectives, enabling us to be more responsive to their needs.
This ability to adapt to larger change within our industry, and in many cases to larger change that is reflective
of our society, is a uniquely flexible tenet of our culture, especially for an enterprise of our considerable size.
We can do this because we are deeply rooted in our core values and principles, while allowing for timely
interpretations of their meaning. Rising to meet the moment in 2020 meant caring for our employees’ physical
and mental health, maintaining connections, and continuing leadership development in several new ways
during trying times brought by the pandemic. It also meant we took a renewed look at how we could strengthen
our human-rights policies to ensure that all of our employees feel psychologically supported while at work.
With clear, ESG-centric values as our guide, we continue to make significant strides on our path to fit-for-
purpose governance in ways that are responsible, accountable, and transparent. In 2021 and beyond, we
are confident the overriding quality that makes Wynn Resorts the world leader in luxury—our unwavering
commitment to excellence—is the same quality that will keep us positioned at the forefront of the global
hospitality industry for decades to come.
WYNN
RESORTS
GOVERNANCE
BACK TO TABLE OF CONTENTS
Wynn Resorts 2020 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report Wynn Resorts Governance 57
Board Composition and Diversity
AVERAGE 50% 66%
DIRECTOR TENURE:
(5 of 10) (2 of 3)
3.5 Years
DIRECTORS ARE BOARD COMMITTEE
DIVERSE CHAIRS ARE WOMEN
Compared with 7.9
years average tenure Compared with 28% for Compared with 26% for
for the S&P 500 the S&P 500 the S&P 500
ROONEY RULE INDEPENDENT
ADOPTED IN 2019 CHAIRMAN
Prevalent at less Prevalent at only
than 24% of the 34% of the S&P 500
S&P 500
Our Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee is dedicated to maintaining a Board of Directors
(“Board”) with a broad spectrum of experience and expertise that will promote the presentation and
consideration of different points of view, meet the Company’s evolving needs and strengthen our diversity.
In 2019, the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee reinforced the Board’s commitment to
diversity of experiences and perspectives among its members. The Nominating and Corporate Governance
Committee amended the Company’s Corporate Governance Guidelines to adopt an NFL-style “Rooney Rule”
policy to include (and have any search firm that it engages to include) candidates with a diverse background
in race, gender, and/or ethnicity when evaluating new candidates for the Board. At that time, the Nominating
and Corporate Governance Committee had also established a goal of achieving 50-percent diversity among
Board members. These considerations have been important factors in recent additions to the Board, including
the appointment of Mr. Darnell Strom to the Board.
As of the 2021 Annual Meeting, our board is 50-percent diverse, with four female directors and one racially
diverse director.
WYNN
RESORTS
GOVERNANCE
BACK TO TABLE OF CONTENTS
Wynn Resorts 2020 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report Wynn Resorts Governance 58
Why Our Board Governance is Effective
Accountability and Alignment
Robust Independence Effective Oversight
with Shareholders
Separate Independent Chair and CEO Strong stock ownership guidelines Compliance Committee composed of
roles enshrined in Bylaws1 -3x annual retainer for directors three individuals who are independent
-6x base salary for CEO of the Company and the Board
All non-executive directors are -3x base salary for our President,
independent2 and empowered to Chief Financial Officer and Executive Regular director education and
propose agenda items Vice Presidents compliance training including
mandatory preventing sexual
Independent directors meeting in Anti-hedging and pledging policies4 harassment and workplace compliance
executive sessions at each regular training conducted by Company’s
Board meeting Mandatory director retirement outside counsel
threshold at age 75
Fully Independent Audit, Executive sessions of the Audit
Compensation, and Nominating and 10b5-1 Plans5 Committee with:
Corporate Governance Committees -Independent Auditors
Commitment to Diversity -General Counsel
Third party review of compensation3 -Adopted NFL-style “Rooney Rule” -Chief Audit Executive
in 2019 -Chief Financial Officer
-Support for NASDAQ rule to -Chief Global Compliance Officer
require director
(1) The responsibilities for the Board chair are disclosed in our Corporate Governance Guidelines available on our website.
(2) All of our non-executive Board members qualify as “independent” under NASDAQ listing rules. All members of the Audit and
Compensation Committees satisfy the independence requirements under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the
“Exchange Act”).
(3) Our CEO’s compensation is established and reviewed by the Compensation Committee, all of whose members are independent.
The Compensation Committee engages an independent third party to evaluate the level of the compensation provided to our NEOs.
This evaluation was last completed in 2020 by Radford as described in the “Compensation Discussion and Analysis”.
(4) Pursuant to the Company’s Trading Policy, our directors and executive officers are prohibited from engaging in speculative
transactions in the Company’s securities, such as trading in puts and calls, or selling securities short, and from all hedging and
prospective pledging of Company securities as collateral for any loan, including holding securities in a margin account and obtaining
a loan or other margin credit under such account, unless approved in advance by the Board.
(5) Our Trading Policy requires any executive who, at the time of the transaction owns more than $15 million of Company stock,
and all directors to enter into a 10b5-1 plan for transactions related to our securities.
WYNN
RESORTS
GOVERNANCE
BACK TO TABLE OF CONTENTS
Wynn Resorts 2020 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report Wynn Resorts Governance 59
Board Role in Risk Oversight
The Board’s goals are to build value for the Company’s shareholders and to promote the vitality and
sustainability of the Company for its customers, employees, jurisdictions in which it does business, our planet,
and the other individuals and organizations that depend on the Company.
To achieve these goals, the Board monitors the performance of the Company (in relation to its goals,
strategy, risks, and competitors); reviews the Company’s compliance efforts; and, through the Compensation
Committee, evaluates and addresses the performance of management, including the Chief Executive Officer.
The Board has an active role in overseeing the Company’s areas of risk.
• The Board and its Committees, in consultation with management and the Company’s independent
auditors, regularly review the Company’s risk profile and have identified specific areas of risk, including:
regulatory compliance; legal and human resource matters; legislative and political conditions; capital
availability and liquidity; gaming credit extension and collection; cybersecurity, including protection of
customer and employee data; construction; catastrophic events; and succession planning.
• The Board assesses risks to the Company’s long-term strategic objectives, including threats related to our
people, our communities, and our planet. The Company addresses these risks through our ESG initiatives.
• The Board (as a whole and through its Committees) has reviewed and approved management’s process
for identifying, managing, and mitigating these risks. While the full Board has overall responsibility for risk
oversight, the Board has assigned certain areas of risk oversight to its Committees as well as to the
Company’s Compliance Committee.
• Throughout the year, the Board, its Committees, and the Company’s Compliance Committee receive
reports from management that include information regarding major risks and exposures facing the
Company and the steps management has taken to monitor and control such risks and exposures. In
2018, the Board also implemented a process to allow for direct communication of risks and issues from
employees to the Board of Directors.
• In addition, throughout the year, the Board, its Committees, and the Company’s Compliance Committee
dedicate a portion of their meetings to review and discuss specific risk topics in greater detail.
• The Audit Committee is primarily responsible for the oversight of credit, related party, information security,
construction, and general financial risks.
WYNN
RESORTS
GOVERNANCE
BACK TO TABLE OF CONTENTS
Wynn Resorts 2020 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report Wynn Resorts Governance 60
• The Company’s Compliance Committee primarily oversees risks relating to regulatory, security, workplace
conduct, and political compliance.
• For the 2020 fiscal year, management completed a review of the Company’s compensation policies and
practices and presented its analysis to the Compensation Committee. The Compensation Committee
concurred with management’s conclusion that such policies and practices do not present risks that are
reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on the Company.
Compliance Committee
The Company maintains a Compliance Program that features a completely-independent Compliance
Committee comprised of individuals with extensive familiarity with law enforcement, regulated businesses,
ethics, and/or gaming compliance who are not otherwise affiliated with the Company, to oversee and promote
the Company’s compliance and to ensure that the Company meets the Company’s strict policy to conduct
business at the highest levels of honesty and integrity.
Shareholder Engagement
We regularly engage with shareholders and other stakeholders to receive their insights on significant
issues, including company performance and strategy, corporate governance, executive compensation, and
environmental, social, and governance topics. Management provides the Board with extensive analysis of
shareholder feedback and shareholder voting results. As a result of this review, over the last several years,
the Board has made significant changes to compensation practices, governance matters, and ESG reporting.
The Board and Company management remain committed to frequent and robust shareholder engagement.
We have made important updates to our pay plans and corporate governance documents and policies based
on our changing needs and the input we have received from engagements with our shareholders. Based on
specific feedback received, the Board adopted the SASB reporting metrics that were included in our 2019
ESG Report. The Board believes that these metrics provide greater transparency in our reporting as well as
heightened accountability to our stakeholders. Our governance practices and policies are more fully explained
in our Proxy Statement.
WYNN
RESORTS
GOVERNANCE
BACK TO TABLE OF CONTENTS
Wynn Resorts 2020 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report Wynn Resorts Governance 61
Harassment Prevention Policy
We believe that all employees are entitled to work in a safe environment where they are treated with dignity
and respect. The Company does not tolerate offensive, demeaning, insulting, or otherwise derogatory
conduct, and is committed to a workplace that is free from sexual harassment and harassment based on other
legally protected characteristics, or any other basis protected by federal, state, or local law or ordinance or
regulation. Such behavior is prohibited in any form, whether it occurs between coworkers, involves a supervisor,
or happens with persons doing business with or for the Company, including guests and vendors. We take
disciplinary action, up to termination of employment for inappropriate conduct.
We also believe that we all have a role in creating a positive, safe, respectful work environment. All employees
are required to follow and help enforce the Company’s harassment and discrimination-related policies, and
advise the Employee Relations Department, the Compliance Officer, the Legal Department, or one of our
hotlines if they believe those policies have been violated.
Anti-Money Laundering Policy
We adhere to the American Gaming Association’s Best Practices for Anti-Money Laundering Compliance.
We follow the Best Practices to promote and foster a culture of compliance, by allocating substantial employee
time to AML compliance, which includes:
• Establishing a system of internal controls and policies and procedures to assure ongoing compliance
with AML requirements.
• Ensuring independent testing of AML compliance, of a scope and frequency that matches the money
laundering and terrorist financing risks present.
• Training casino personnel, as warranted for individual jobs, in the identification of unusual financial
transactions or suspicious activities, in the recording and aggregation of currency transactions, and in all
legal requirements and the casino’s compliance policies and procedures.
• Designating an individual or individuals responsible for assuring day-to-day AML compliance at all venues.
• Providing adequate resources to compliance functions.
WYNN
RESORTS
GOVERNANCE
BACK TO TABLE OF CONTENTS
Wynn Resorts 2020 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report Wynn Resorts Governance 62
Reporting
Indexes
BACK TO TABLE OF CONTENTS
About This Report
The Wynn Resorts 2020 Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) Report presents information focused
primarily on activities that occurred during calendar year 2020. All quantitative data presented in this report is
based on the 2020 calendar year, for comparability and accuracy, except where otherwise specified.
Throughout the production of this report, the COVID-19 pandemic continued to affect federal and local policy
that shaped the business operations discussed in this report. Because of the evolving circumstances, we
continued adapting our COVID-19 response programs to the needs and constraints of the pandemic during
2021. To uphold materiality and completeness in reporting our response to COVID-19, this report includes
relevant actions that took place in 2021. This report was published in September of 2021.
This report presents information that references selected Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards and
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Standards, maintained by the Value Reporting Foundation.
We expect to update this report annually.
Any questions or comments regarding this report can be directed to:
Erik Hansen
Chief Sustainability Officer
Wynn Resorts, Limited
CorporateSustainability@WynnResorts.com
Wynn Resorts 2020 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report GRI Reporting Index 64
ABOUT
THIS
REPORT
GRI Reporting Index
GRI Disclosure
Disclosure Title Disclosure Statement
Number
Wynn Resorts, Limited (“Wynn Resorts,” or together with its subsidiaries, “we” or
GRI 102-1 Name of the organization
the “Company”)
Activities, brands, Wynn Resorts 10-K: Item 1 - Business, p. 69;
GRI 102-2
products, and services Wynn Resorts website
GRI 102-3 Location of headquarters 3131 Las Vegas Boulevard South, Las Vegas, Nevada, United States
GRI 102-4 Location of operations Wynn Resorts 2020 ESG Report: Property Descriptions, p. 10;
Wynn Resorts is a publicly traded company incorporated in the United States.
GRI 102-5 Ownership and legal form
Wynn Resorts Articles of Incorporation
GRI 102-6 Markets served Wynn Resorts 10-K: Item 1 - Business, p. 6;
Wynn Resorts 10-K: Item 1 - Business (Human Capital), P. 16; Notes to
GRI 102-7 Scale of the organization Consolidated Financial Statements, p. 69 ; Consolidated Balance Sheets, p. 64;
Note 20 - Segment Information, p. 107;
Wynn Resorts 2020 Employee Contracts
Employee Wynn Wynn
Company Total
Contract North America Macau Limited
Male Female Male Female Male Female
Full-Time 5,131 3,966 6,546 6,545 11,677 10,511
Information on employees
GRI 102-8 Part-Time 2,475 2,482 0 0 2,475 2,482
and other workers
Permanent 7,606 6,448 6,546 6,545 14,152 12,993
Temporary 174 121 0 0 174 121
Our workforce numbers in 2020 reflect the changes to our operations coming
from the business closures during the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic. We
reopened operations with a focus on retaining as many employees as possible.
Supply Chain Policy Statement
Wynn Resorts recognizes the vital contributions of Minority-owned and
Women-owned Business Enterprises (MWBEs) to the economies of the nation,
the state, and the community, as well as our Company. Our supplier diversity
Supply chain
policy objectives are:
GRI 102-9
• Actively and routinely seek out qualified MWBEs that can provide high quality
commodities and services in a competitive market.
• Encourage major suppliers to Wynn Resorts who are not MWBEs to support
diversity in their operations.
• Seek opportunities to support the development and competitiveness of
MWBEs through instruction, mentoring, and other outreach activities.
Significant changes to the
GRI 102-10 organization and its supply Wynn Resorts 10-K: Item 1A - Risk Factors, p. 19;
chain
Precautionary Principle or
GRI 102-11 Wynn Resorts 10-K: Item 1A - Risk Factors, p. 19;
approach
GRI
REPORTING
INDEX
BACK TO TABLE OF CONTENTS
Wynn Resorts 2020 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report GRI Reporting Index 65
GRI Disclosure
Disclosure Title Disclosure Statement
Number
U.S. Green Building Council - Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design
(LEED)
GRI 102-12 External initiatives
Green Building Initiative - Green Globes Certification
American Gaming Association - Code of Conduct for Responsible Gaming
Statement from senior
GRI 102-14 Wynn Resorts 2020 ESG Report: Message from Matt Maddox, CEO, p. 4;
decision-maker
Wynn Resorts 10-K: Item 1A - Risk Factors, p. 17;
Key impacts, risks, and
GRI 102-15 Wynn Resorts Proxy Statement: Board Role in Risk Oversight, p. 14;
opportunities
Wynn Resorts 2019 ESG Report: A Message from Matt Maddox, CEO, p. 4;
Values, principles,
GRI 102-16 standards, and norms of Wynn Resorts Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
behavior
Wynn Resorts Proxy Statement: Board Communication and Engagement, p. 15;
Mechanisms for advice GRI 102-17
and concerns about ethics
Wynn Resorts Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
Wynn Resorts Proxy Statement: Director Biographies and Board Committees,
GRI 102-18 Governance structure
p. 3 and 10;
GRI 102-19 Delegating authority Wynn Resorts Proxy Statement: Board Committees, p. 10;
Our Board of Directors directly supports our sustainability initiatives by
Executive-level
prioritizing ESG goals to drive long-term corporate value. The Board committed
responsibility for
GRI 102-20 to continuing its investment in each of these (environmental, social, governance)
economic, environmental,
areas and adopted certain Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (“SASB”)
and social topics
metrics to measure our progress in meeting our ESG goals.
Composition of the
highest governance body
GRI 102-22 Wynn Resorts Proxy Statement: Board Committees, p. 10;
and its committees
Chair of the highest
GRI 102-23 Wynn Resorts Proxy Statement: Board Biographies, p. 3;
governance body
GRI
REPORTING
INDEX
BACK TO TABLE OF CONTENTS
Wynn Resorts 2020 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report GRI Reporting Index 66
GRI Disclosure
Disclosure Title Disclosure Statement
Number
Nominating and selecting
Wynn Resorts Proxy Statement: Nominating and Corporate Governance
GRI 102-24 the highest governance
Committee, p. 12;
body
Wynn Resorts Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
GRI 102-25 Conflicts of interest
Wynn Resorts Proxy Statement: Nominating and Corporate Governance
Committee, p. 12;
Role of highest
governance body in
GRI 102-26 Wynn Resorts Corporate Governance Guidelines
setting purpose, values,
and strategy
Evaluating the highest
Wynn Resorts Proxy Statement: Nominating and Corporate Governance
GRI 102-28 governance body’s
Committee, p. 12;
performance
Identifying and managing
GRI 102-29 economic, environmental, Wynn Resorts Proxy Statement: Board Role in Risk Oversight, p. 14;
and social impacts
Effectiveness of risk Wynn Resorts Proxy Statement: Nominating and Corporate Governance
GRI 102-30
management processes Committee, p. 12;
Review of economic,
Wynn Resorts Proxy Statement: Nominating and Corporate Governance
GRI 102-31 environmental, and social
Committee, p. 12;
topics
Highest governance
GRI 102-32 body’s role in sustainability Wynn Resorts 2020 ESG Report has been reviewed by Wynn Resorts’ CEO.
reporting
Wynn Resorts Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
Communicating critical
GRI 102-33
concerns
Wynn Resorts Proxy Statement: Board Communication and Engagement, p. 15;
Wynn Resorts Proxy Statement: Compensation Discussion and Analysis, p. 34;
GRI 102-35 Remuneration policies
Wynn Resorts 10-K: Item 11 - Executive Compensation, p. 113;
Process for determining Wynn Resorts Proxy Statement: Compensation Committee, p. 11; How We
GRI 102-36
remuneration Approach Executive Compensation, p. 39;
Percentage of Wynn Resorts Employees in Collective Bargaining Agreements
Collective bargaining Wynn North America 37%
GRI 102-41
agreements Wynn Macau Limited 0%
Company Total 20%
GRI
REPORTING
INDEX
BACK TO TABLE OF CONTENTS
Wynn Resorts 2020 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report GRI Reporting Index 67
GRI Disclosure
Disclosure Title Disclosure Statement
Number
Identifying and selecting
GRI 102-42 Wynn Resorts Proxy Statement: Board Communication and Engagement, p. 15;
stakeholders
Entities included in the
Wynn Resorts 10-K: Note 2 - Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting
GRI 102-45 consolidated financial
Policies, p. 71; Exhibit 21.1 - Subsidiaries of Wynn Resorts, Limited, p. 115;
statements
The Wynn Resorts 2020 ESG Report presents information focused primarily on
GRI 102-50 Reporting period
activities spanning the 2020 calendar year, except where otherwise indicated.
GRI 102-51 Date of most recent report The 2019 ESG Report was published in June 2020.
GRI 102-52 Reporting cycle Wynn Resorts follows an annual reporting cycle.
Contact point for
GRI 102-53 questions regarding Erik Hansen, Chief Sustainability Officer
the report
The 2020 ESG Report has been prepared as GRI Referenced.
Claims of reporting in
GRI 102-54 accordance with the GRI This material references the 2016 GRI Standards, with the exception of topic-
Standards specific standards for Water and Effluents (2018), Occupational Health and
Safety (2018), and Waste (2020).
GRI 102-55 GRI content index Wynn Resorts 2020 ESG Report: GRI Index, p. 63;
Direct economic value
GRI 201-1 Wynn Resorts 10-K: Item 8 - Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, p. 59;
generated and distributed
Defined benefit plan
GRI 201-3 obligations and other Wynn Resorts 10-K: Note 10 - Benefit Plans, p. 89;
retirement plans
Wynn Resorts 10-K: Note 10- Benefit Plans, p.89;
Wynn Resorts 2020 ESG Report: A Five-Star Vaccination Site, p. 29; Wynn
Resorts COVID-19 Community Response, p. 18;
Community Impact Statement
Wynn Resorts and the Wynn Employee Foundation have proudly maintained
Infrastructure investments
GRI 203-1 several partnerships over multiple years. Organizations that the Company
and services supported
has served year after year include The Shade Tree of Las Vegas, a shelter and
service provider for women and children in crisis; SHARE Village (formerly
Veterans Village), a housing and social service provider for Veterans experiencing
homelessness; and Dean Petersen Elementary School, a school serving one of
the poorest neighborhoods in Las Vegas, with 100% of students qualifying for free
and reduced lunch.
GRI
REPORTING
INDEX
BACK TO TABLE OF CONTENTS
Wynn Resorts 2020 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report GRI Reporting Index 68
GRI Disclosure
Disclosure Title Disclosure Statement
Number
Community Impact Statement Continued
One of the major themes of corporate philanthropy at Wynn has been assisting
individuals and families experiencing crisis. Our communities never experienced
a crisis as pronounced or widespread as in 2020. Our objective remains the same:
provide immediate relief that brings short-term improvement in individuals’ lives –
with an eye toward moving families from crisis to stability over time.
Infrastructure investments
GRI 203-1 The Company publicly discloses its volunteerism and community donations
and services supported
annually in the ESG Report and Proxy Filing. In recent years, the Company and
its Foundation ramped up efforts to quantify and publicly disclose the social
impacts experienced through the financial and in-kind support given. To support
this effort, the Company requires grant recipients to report back on measurable
metrics of the outcomes of their grants. The Company has taken appropriate
opportunities to publicize its work in the community and allowed community
partners to share the positive results from Wynn’s engagement with their
Wynn Resorts Code of Business Conduct and Ethics.
We are committed to operating in accordance with the highest ethical standards.
Our commitment to conducting business ethically starts with our Board and our
Independent Compliance Committee, who oversee and promote compliance with
our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, our Compliance Plan and our Anti-
Corruption Policy.
Our Anti-Corruption Policy, which applies to Wynn Resorts and all our affiliates
and subsidiaries, ensures our business practices fully comply with applicable anti-
corruption laws. All our employees must immediately report actual or potential
violations of our policy or Anti-Corruption Laws, whether by Wynn employees or
third parties, to our Chief Global Compliance Officer. The Compliance Officer,
who reports to the independent Compliance Committee, is responsible for the
Communication and
Company’s compliance with the Anti-Corruption Policy.
training about anti-
GRI 205-2
corruption policies and
As part of our commitment to ethics, we require all Senior Leadership, Board
procedures
Members, and Executives to receive biannual training on our anti-corruption
policies. Additionally, all new employees are required to acknowledge
understanding the Company’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics.
Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics provides that political contributions
(either directly or through our political action committee) may only be made
with the review and approval of our Global Chief Compliance Officer. Proposed
political contributions are subject to an internal control process, designed to
confirm compliance with all applicable laws, including contribution limits, and to
confirm that all political contributions are to promote our business interests. The
Company’s Government Affairs Department provides a quarterly report to the
Compliance Officer summarizing all political contributions made by the Company
in the prior quarter. For more information, please see our Political Contributions
Policy.
Legal actions for anti-
competitive behavior,
GRI 206-1 Wynn Resorts 10-K: Note 17 - Commitments and Contingencies, p. 103;
anti-trust, and monopoly
practices
GRI
REPORTING
INDEX
BACK TO TABLE OF CONTENTS
Wynn Resorts 2020 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report GRI Reporting Index 69
GRI Disclosure
Disclosure Title Disclosure Statement
Number
Wynn Resorts 2020 ESG Report: Wynn North America Environmental Data, p. 51;
Wynn Macau Limited ESG Highlights, p. 12;
Wynn North America Power Consumption by Energy Type
Non-Renewable Energy Renewable Energy WNA Total Consumed
Year (MWh) (Gigajoules) (MWh) (Gigajoules) (MWh) (Gigajoules)
2015 195,944 705,400 195,944 705,400
2016 191,815 690,534 191,815 690,534
2017 181,086 651,912 181,086 651,912
2018 155,918 561,305 21,189 76,281 177,107 637,586
2019 148,728 535,423 28,554 102,795 177,283 638,218
20201, 2 176,409 635,073 11,714 42,171 188,123 677,245
Energy consumption 1 Total 2020 electricity consumption for Wynn North America included both
GRI 302-1
within the organization Wynn Las Vegas and Encore Boston Harbor.
2 The Wynn Solar Facility took an unscheduled maintenance outage in 2020,
resulting in decreased annual output.
Wynn Macau Limited Power Consumption by Property
Wynn
Wynn Macau Wynn Palace WML Total Consumed
Macau Limited
Year (MWh) (Gigajoules) (MWh) (Gigajoules) (MWh) (Gigajoules)
2015 135,017 486,060 135,017 486,060
2016 128,994 464,379 56,107 201,984 185,101 666,363
2017 117,063 421,429 167,025 601,292 284,089 1,022,720
2018 115,188 414,677 163,634 589,082 278,822 1,003,759
2019 112,095 403,542 158,063 569,028 270,158 972,570
2020 98,996 356,388 127,391 458,606 226,387 814,994
Wynn Resorts 2020 ESG Report: Wynn North America Environmental Data p. 51;
Wynn Macau Limited ESG Highlights, p. 12;
Wynn Resorts Energy Use Intensity
Encore Boston
Wynn Las Vegas Wynn Macau Wynn Palace
Harbor
Year EUI Ratio (kBtu/SqFt)
GRI 302-3 Energy intensity
2015 152 215 0 0
2016 147 206 141 0
2017 144 187 143 0
2018 143 182 142 0
2019 140 175 138 0
2020 116 150 109 150
GRI
REPORTING
INDEX
BACK TO TABLE OF CONTENTS
Wynn Resorts 2020 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report GRI Reporting Index 70
GRI Disclosure
Disclosure Title Disclosure Statement
Number
Regional Water Stress:
The availability of water as a resource varies among the regions of our resort
operations. We assess water risk using the World Resource Institute Water
Stress Map. In regions where an increased level of risk is identified, we prioritize
specialized measures to responsibly allocate our water use by investing in
water-smart facility machinery, integrating weather monitoring, expanding water
recycling opportunities, and reducing external water intake.
Wynn Resorts Regional Water Risk Assessment 2020:
Macau: Low - Medium (10-20%)
Boston/Everett: Medium - High (20-40%)
Las Vegas: Low (<10%)
Source: World Resources Institute: Water Stress Rating - Aqueduct WaterRisk
Interactions with water as Atlas
GRI 303-1
a shared resource
Management of Water:
Wynn Resorts is taking steps to monitor and reduce our water usage. Our
programs include investing in smart technologies, monitoring water use on
a functional basis, aligning best practices among each of our resorts, and
investing in equipment for water use intensity. At all our resorts, we take steps
to utilize technology that uses water more efficiently. We collect soil moisture
measurements daily with a digital moisture meter, which feeds into a smart
meteorological system that disperses water based on precipitation, temperature,
and other specific weather conditions. Evaporation and runoff are also minimized
through our precise drip irrigation systems. We continue to look for new
opportunities to use water more intensely, and report our water use annually in
this report.
GRI
REPORTING
INDEX
BACK TO TABLE OF CONTENTS
Wynn Resorts 2020 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report GRI Reporting Index 71
GRI Disclosure
Disclosure Title Disclosure Statement
Number
Wynn Resorts 2020 ESG Report: Wynn North America Environmental Data p. 51;
Wynn Macau Limited ESG Highlights, p. 12;
Encore Boston Wynn Macau
Year Wynn Las Vegas Company Total
Harbor & Wynn Palace
2015 526,930 0 290,720 817,650
GRI 303-5 Water consumption
2016 532,005 0 407,123 939,128
2017 508,295 0 609,815 1,118,110
2018 564,320 0 664,290 1,228,610
2019 520,525 0 652,896 1,173,413
2020 395,190 51,839 463,382 910,411
Wynn Resorts 2020 ESG Report: Wynn North America Environmental Data p. 51;
Wynn Macau Limited ESG Highlights, p. 12;
We use the Environmental Protection Agency’s 2020 Emission Factors for Green-
house Gas Inventories. The calculation methodology uses 100-year GWP from
the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change’s Fourth Assessment Report.
2020 Wynn Resorts Carbon Dioxide Emissions By Scope
Scope 1 Emissions Scope 2 Emissions Combined Emissions
Property
(metric tons) (metric tons) (metric tons)
Direct (Scope 1)
GRI 305-1 Wynn Las Vegas 151,151 66,621 217,772
GHG emissions
Encore Boston Harbor 3,894 2,951 6,845
Wynn Macau 3,517 78,306 81,823
Energy indirect (Scope 2)
GRI 305-2 Wynn Palace 5,604 100,766 106,370
GHG emissions
Company Total 164,166 248,644 412,810
Wynn Resorts uses the Environmental Protection Agency’s definition of Scope 1
Emissions: Direct emissions from sources owned or controlled by the Agency.
Wynn Resorts uses the Environmental Protection Agency’s definition of Scope 2
Emissions: Emissions that result from the generation of electricity, heat, or steam
purchased by the Agency from a Utility provider.
GRI
REPORTING
INDEX
BACK TO TABLE OF CONTENTS
Wynn Resorts 2020 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report GRI Reporting Index 72
GRI Disclosure
Disclosure Title Disclosure Statement
Number
2020 Wynn Resorts Carbon Dioxide Emissions Intensity
Organization-Specific
Property Emissions Intensity Ratio
Denominator
Wynn Las Vegas 0.012 17,725,219 sqft
Encore Boston Harbor 0.002 3,112,153 sqft
GRI 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Wynn Macau 0.292 280,000 m3
Wynn Palace 0.199 535,000 m3
Our CO2 Emissions Intensity Ratio includes Scope 1 and 2 Emissions and is
calculated using operation area as a denominator.
Waste reported is compiled with data from the contracted waste management
and hauling vendors at our properties. At Wynn Las Vegas, our waste reports are
Management of significant managed by our waste management vendor, which undergoes an internal audit
GRI 306-2 waste-related impacts quarterly. For more information on our circularity measures, upstream and down-
stream activities in 2020 to manage our impacts from waste generated, visit our
story Waste Management Programs on p. 52. GRI
REPORTING
INDEX
BACK TO TABLE OF CONTENTS
Wynn Resorts 2020 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report GRI Reporting Index 73
GRI Disclosure
Disclosure Title Disclosure Statement
Number
Wynn Resorts 2020 ESG Report: Wynn North America Environmental Data p. 51;
2020 Wynn North America Waste and Diversion (Tons)
Encore Boston Harbor Wynn Las Vegas
Total Waste Weight 3,626.41 12,631.58
GRI 306-3 Waste generated
Rate of Diversion from Landfill 100% 38%
Total Diverted 905.74 4,764.93
Recycle 0 13.15
Total Hazardous
Reuse 0 0
Diverted
Other 0 0
Recycle 902.77 1,537.20
Total Reuse 0 170.87
Non-Hazardous
Diverted Compost 0 3,039.10
Donate 0 4.61
Total Disposed 2,720.67 7,866.65
Waste diverted from
GRI 306-4 disposal Incineration 0 0
Total Hazardous
Landfill 0 0
Disposed
Energy Recovery 2.97 0
Incineration 0 0
Total
Non-Hazardous Landfill 0 7,866.65
Disposed
Energy Recovery 2,717.70 0
Soap Recycled at Wynn Resorts with Clean the World (lbs)
Year Wynn North America Wynn Macau Limited Company Total
Waste directed
GRI 306-5 2017 14,748 16,617 31,365
to disposal
2018 11,086 19,640 30,726
2019 9,890 24,812 34,702
2020 4,123 8,506 12,629
Wynn Resorts Turnover Rate
New employee hires and Wynn North America Wynn Macau Limited
GR 401-1
employee turnover
Voluntary Turnover Rate 9% 4%
Involuntary Turnover Rate 10% 2%
GRI
REPORTING
INDEX
BACK TO TABLE OF CONTENTS
Wynn Resorts 2020 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report GRI Reporting Index 74
GRI Disclosure
Disclosure Title Disclosure Statement
Number
Benefits provided to full-
time employees that are
GRI 401-2 Wynn Resorts Proxy Statement: Employee Benefits, p. 23;
not provided to temporary
or part-time employees
Wynn Las Vegas OSHA Employee Injury
Work-Related Injury 2018 2019 2020
Recordable injuries not resulting in
187 117 46
restrictions or lost time
Recordable injuries resulting in restrict-
199 127 33
ed work or transfer to another job
Recordable injuries resulting
79 72 85
in lost time
Total OSHA Recordable Injuries 465 316 164
Encore Boston Harbor OSHA Employee Injury
Work-Related Injury 2018 2019 2020
Recordable injuries not resulting in
N/A 14 10
restrictions or lost time
Recordable injuries resulting in restrict- N/A 4 1
GRI 403-9 Work-related injuries ed work or transfer to another job
Recordable injuries resulting
N/A 43 42
in lost time
Total OSHA Recordable Injuries N/A 61 53
Wynn operations utilize a Workplace Safety Program that manages the safety
and health of all employees and guests at our property. This program includes
extensive mandatory employee safety training, hazard identification and control,
accident reporting and corrective action, accident prevention, and employee
committee programs to educate on safe workplace practices. This program was
built on the values and practices included in the OHSAS 18001 standard.
To uphold employee and guest safety, Wynn commits to:
• Provide a workplace free from unsafe conditions and recognized hazards.
• Comply with the Nevada Occupational Safety & Health Act, Occupational
Safety & Health Standards & Regulations, state and local ordinances, and
manufacturer guidelines.
• Administer and enforce occupational safety & health programs.
• Provide proper training in the safe use of equipment and machinery, personal
protective equipment, hazard recognition, and emergency procedures.
• Inform all Employees of the safety rules, regulations, and standards for their
respective duties.
GRI
REPORTING
INDEX
BACK TO TABLE OF CONTENTS
Wynn Resorts 2020 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report GRI Reporting Index 75
GRI Disclosure
Disclosure Title Disclosure Statement
Number
In 2020, Wynn Resorts employees received 50,153 hours of leadership training.
2020 Wynn North America Employee Hours of Training on Re-Opening
Health and Safety Procedures
Encore Boston
Employee Level Wynn Las Vegas Company Total
Harbor
Line Level 2,041 602 2,643
Average hours of training Supervisors 246 88 334
GRI 404-1
per year per employee
Managers 352 56 408
Directors 125 17 142
Executives 35 2 37
Total Employees 2,799 765 3,564
Wynn Resorts 2020 ESG Report: Planning a Safe and Successful Reopening, p.
20; Supporting Employees Back at Work, p. 23; Supporting Employee Wellness in
Tough Times, p. 26; K9 and Animal Welfare, p. 30; Wynn North America Workforce
Highlights, p. 32; Preventing Human Trafficking, p. 42;
Programs for upgrading
Wynn Resorts 2020 ESG Report: Supporting Employees Back at Work, p. 23; employee skills and
GRI 404-2 Supporting Employee Wellness in Tough Times, p. 26; Unwavering Community
transition assistance
Connections, p. 39;
programs
GRI
REPORTING
INDEX
BACK TO TABLE OF CONTENTS
Wynn Resorts 2020 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report GRI Reporting Index 76
GRI Disclosure
Disclosure Title Disclosure Statement
Number
Wynn Resorts 2020 ESG Report: Wynn North America Environmental Data p. 51;
Wynn Macau Limited ESG Highlights, p. 12;
2020 Wynn Resorts Gender at Levels of Leadership
Tiers Gender Wynn North America Wynn Macau Limited
Male 66% 64%
Leadership
Female 34% 36%
Male 56% 56%
Manager
Female 44% 44%
Male 54% 49%
Line Level
Female 46% 51%
2020 Wynn Resorts Employee Age Distribution
Age Wynn North America Wynn Macau Limited
Under 30 18% 17%
30-50 50% 61%
Over 50 32% 22%
2020 Wynn North America Ethnic Diversity at Levels of Leadership
Diversity of governance Percentage of
GRI 405-1 Tier Ethnicity
bodies and employees Employees in Tier
2 or more 4.00%
American Indian 0.50%
Asian 14.00%
Black 3.00%
Leadership
Hawaiian 0.50%
Hispanic 6.50%
White 70.50%
Other/declined 1.00%
Percentage of
Tier Ethnicity
Employees in Tier
2 or more 3.50%
American Indian 0.50%
Asian 19.00%
Black 6.00%
Manager
Hawaiian 2.50%
Hispanic 20.00%
White 46.00%
Other/declined 2.50%
Percentage of
Tier Ethnicity
Employees in Tier
2 or more 4.00%
American Indian 0.50%
Asian 21.00%
Black 9.00%
Line Level
Hawaiian 1.50%
Hispanic 34.00%
White 26.00%
Other/declined 4.00%
GRI
REPORTING
INDEX
BACK TO TABLE OF CONTENTS
Wynn Resorts 2020 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report GRI Reporting Index 77
GRI Disclosure
Disclosure Title Disclosure Statement
Number
Operations and suppliers
at significant risk for
GRI 409-1 incidents of forced or Wynn Resorts 2020 ESG Report: Preventing Human Trafficking p. 42;
compulsory labor
Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics provides that political contributions
(either directly or through our political action committee) may only be made with
the review and approval of our Global Chief Compliance Officer (Compliance
Officer). Proposed political contributions are subject to an internal control
process, designed to confirm compliance with all applicable laws, including
contribution limits, and to confirm that all political contributions are to promote
our business interests. The Company’s Government Affairs Department
provides a quarterly report to the Compliance Officer summarizing all political
contributions made by the Company in the prior quarter. For more information,
please see our Political Contributions Policy.
Wynn Resorts follows all applicable federal, state, and local laws and regulations
related to disclosure of political contributions. The company also discloses on a
quarterly basis certain political contributions on its Investor Relations website.
Like many organizations, Wynn Resorts will engage in lobbying efforts where
GRI 415-1 Political Contributions
appropriate. From time to time Wynn Resorts has worked with government
relations firms and internal staff for lobbying in various jurisdictions. The company
follows all relevant laws and regulations for registration and disclosure of its
lobbying activities. The company is also a member of various trade associations
which will often engage in lobbying activities.
Recent policy at the federal, state, and local level has focused on financial
assistance for certain industries and businesses. While Wynn Resorts and the
Trade Associations it is a member of have engaged in lobbying certain provisions
of these policies, the company currently does not receive direct financial
assistance from any government entity.
The only tax abatement or preferential tax treatment that the company receives
stems from so-called “Green building credits” related to the properties that Wynn
and its subsidiaries operate.
GRI
REPORTING
INDEX
BACK TO TABLE OF CONTENTS
Wynn Resorts 2020 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report GRI Reporting Index 78
GRI Disclosure
Disclosure Title Disclosure Statement
Number
Information is one of our most valuable company assets, and protecting it
from misuse, loss, or theft is a high priority at Wynn Resorts. Our policy on data
protection is published on our website to inform customers of user consent, the
purpose of data collection, minimization efforts, and access to correct or modify
the information collected. We are committed to preserving the confidentiality,
accuracy, and integrity of all forms of information used by the Company and
maintained on behalf of customers. The Company also commits to collecting
customer data only when it is necessary to complete business functions, ensuring
data is never sold or released to any outside party.
The Company’s global operations are protected by a robust set of controls
and safeguards to offset possible threats that could result in compromise,
reputational damage, or financial loss. Wynn’s Information Security Program is
a world-class program founded on principles and standards of ISO 270001 and
Substantiated complaints
NIST Cyber Security Framework. This program is strengthened by regular risk
concerning breaches of
GRI 418-1 assessments and a variety of recurring audits to assess the program’s maturity
customer privacy and
and effectiveness. Targets and security objectives are met through structured
losses of customer data
departmental responsibilities, physical safeguards, technical safeguards, and
incident management capabilities. We established this program to protect the
information related to our operations, employees, guests, and business partners.
The Company’s goal is to protect information across all its forms, including
electronic data, paper documents, and the spoken word. Our global workforce
supports the Company’s data security goals throughout all operations. The
Company requires annual information security education for all employees,
to uphold data security policies, information management standards, and
threat awareness. Additionally, Wynn’s Information Security specialists receive
advanced training for their function and responsibilities of maintaining the
Information Security Program. To date, there have been zero substantiated
complaints of breaches resulting from a compromise of customer privacy or data.
GRI
REPORTING
INDEX
BACK TO TABLE OF CONTENTS
Wynn Resorts 2020 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report GRI Reporting Index 79
SASB Consolidated Standards
Topic Disclosure Title Disclosure Statement
Wynn North America Power Consumption by Energy Type
Non-Renewable Energy Renewable Energy WNA Total Consumed
Year (MWh) (Gigajoules) (MWh) (Gigajoules) (MWh) (Gigajoules)
2015 195,944 705,400 0 0 195,944 705,400
2016 191,815 690,534 0 0 191,815 690,534
2017 181,086 651,912 0 0 181,086 651,912
2018 155,918 561,305 21,189 76,281 177,107 637,586
2019 148,728 535,423 28,554 102,795 177,283 638,218
20201, 2 176,409 635,073 11,714 42,172 188,123 677,245
1 Total 2020 electricity consumption for Wynn North America included both Wynn
Las Vegas and Encore Boston Harbor.
Total Energy Consumed
2 The Wynn Solar Facility took an unscheduled maintenance outage in 2020,
resulting in decreased annual output.
SV-CA-130a.1
Wynn Macau Limited Energy Consumption
Wynn
Wynn Macau Wynn Palace WML Total Consumed
Macau Limited
Year (MWh) (Gigajoules) (MWh) (Gigajoules) (MWh) (Gigajoules)
Energy
Management 2015 135,017 486,060 135,017 486,060
2016 128,994 464,379 56,107 201,984 185,101 666,363
2017 117,063 421,429 167,025 601,292 284,089 1,022,720
2018 115,188 414,677 163,634 589,082 278,822 1,003,759
2019 112,095 403,542 158,063 569,028 270,158 972,570
2020 98,996 356,388 127,390 458,606 226,387 814,994
Wynn Las Vegas Grid Electricity
Percentage of Total
Year
Electricity from the Grid
Percentage Grid 2015 100%
Electricity 2016 100%
2017 100%
SV-HL-130a.1
2018 88%
2019 84%
2020 92%
Percentage Renewable
8% of annual energy consumed in 2020 at Wynn Las Vegas was from
renewable sources.
FB-RN-130a.1
SASB
REPORTING
INDEX
BACK TO TABLE OF CONTENTS
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board Index
Wynn Resorts 2020 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report SASB Reporting Index 80
Topic Disclosure Title Disclosure Statement
Wynn Resorts Water Consumption (Gallons x 1,000)
Encore Boston Wynn Macau
Year Wynn Las Vegas Company Total
Harbor & Wynn Palace
2015 526,930 0 290,720 817,650
2016 532,005 0 407,123 939,128
2017 508,295 0 609,815 1,118,110
2018 564,320 0 664,290 1,228,610
2019 520,525 0 652,896 1,173,413
2020 395,190 51,389 463,382 910,411
Water Management Statement
Wynn Resorts is taking steps to monitor and reduce our water usage. Our
programs include investing in smart technologies, monitoring water use on
Total Water Consumed, a functional basis, aligning best practices among each of our resorts, and
Percentage in Regions investing in equipment for water use intensity. At all our resorts, we take steps
Water with High or Extremely to utilize technology that uses water more efficiently. We collect soil moisture
Management High Baseline Water measurements daily with a digital moisture meter, which feeds into a smart
Stress meteorological system that disperses water based on precipitation, temperature,
and other specific weather conditions. Evaporation and runoff are also minimized
SV-HL-140a.1; through our precise drip irrigation systems. We continue to look for new
FB-RN-140a.1 opportunities to use water more intensely, and report our water use annually in
this report.
Wynn Resorts Regional Water Risk Assessment 2020:
The availability of water as a resource varies among the regions of our resort
operations. We assess water risk using the World Resource Institute Water
Stress Map. In regions where an increased level of risk is identified, we prioritize
specialized measures to responsibly allocate our water use by investing in
water-smart facility machinery, integrating weather monitoring, expanding water
recycling opportunities, and reducing external water intake.
Macau: Low - Medium (10-20%)
Boston/Everett: Medium - High (20-40%)
Las Vegas: Low (<10%)
Source: World Resources Institute: Water Stress Rating - Aqueduct Water
Risk Atlas
SASB
REPORTING
INDEX
BACK TO TABLE OF CONTENTS
Wynn Resorts 2020 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report SASB Reporting Index 81
Topic Disclosure Title Disclosure Statement
Voluntary Turnover Rate Wynn Resorts 2020 Turnover Rates
for All Employees
Wynn North America Wynn Macau Limited
Involuntary Turnover Rate
for All Employees Voluntary Turnover Rate 9% 4%
SV-HL-310a.1; Involuntary Turnover Rate 10% 2%
FB-RN-310a.1
The average hourly wage for Wynn Employees in North America was
Average Hourly Wage, $27.71 in 2020.
by Region
Percentage of Hotel Percentage of Employees Earning Above Minimum Wage in 2020
Employees Earning
Minimum Wage, by Region
Region Percentage
SV-HL-310a.3; Wynn North America 99.99%
FB-RN-310a.2
Labor Practices Wynn Macau Limited 100%
Harassment Prevention Statement
We believe that all employees are entitled to work in a safe environment where
they are treated with dignity and respect. The Company does not tolerate
offensive, demeaning, insulting or otherwise derogatory conduct, and is
committed to a workplace that is free from sexual harassment and harassment
Description of Policies based on other legally protected characteristics, or any other basis protected by
and Programs to Prevent federal, state, or local law or ordinance or regulation. Such behavior is prohibited
Worker Harassment in any form, whether it occurs between coworkers, involves a supervisor, or
happens with persons doing business with or for the Company, including guests
SV-HL-310a.4 and vendors. We take disciplinary action, up to termination of employment
for inappropriate conduct. We also believe that we all have a role in creating a
positive, safe, respectful work environment. All employees are required to follow
and help enforce the Company’s harassment and discrimination-related policies,
and advise the Employee Relations Department, the Compliance Officer, the
Legal Department, or one of our hotlines if they believe those policies have
been violated.
SASB
REPORTING
INDEX
BACK TO TABLE OF CONTENTS
Wynn Resorts 2020 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report SASB Reporting Index 82
SASB Casino and Gaming Standards
Topic Disclosure Title Disclosure Statement
Percentage of Gaming
100% of Wynn Resorts, Limited properties adhere to the AGA’s Code of Conduct
Facilities that Implement
for Responsible Gaming. We pledge to make responsible gaming an integral part
the Responsible Gambling
of our daily operations.
Index
Patrons may request at any time to be removed from any promotional mailings
SV-CA-260a.1
and for revocation of casino-specific privileges such as access to markers, player
card privileges, and on-site check cashing. We reserve the right to exclude a
patron from gaming without a request from a patron.
We provide current education to new employees on responsible gaming and
provide periodic refresher training.
We make information available to all patrons explaining the probabilities of
winning or losing at the various games offered by our casinos.
We advertise responsibly by including a responsible gaming message and/or a
Responsible Percentage of Online
toll-free help line number in advertising messaging where practical. We place
Gaming Gaming Operations that
media where most of the audience is reasonably expected to be above the legal
Implement the National
age to participate in gaming activity. We do not feature collegiate athletes or
Council on Problem
persons designed to appeal to those under the age of 21. More information can
Gambling (NCPG) Internet
be found here.
Responsible Gambling
Standards
As a Company that takes pride in guest loyalty, publishing accurate and
consistent information is the foundation of building trust with our customers.
SV-CA-260a.2
Responsible marketing is part of the communication strategy across our business
and is part of our commitment to responsible gaming. We advertise responsibly
by including a responsible gaming message and a toll-free help line number
in advertising messaging related to gaming where practical. We place media
where most of the audience is reasonably expected to be above the legal age to
participate in gaming activity. We do not feature marketing designed to appeal to
individuals under the age of 21. Our marketing practices adhere to the American
Gaming Association’s Code of Conduct for Responsible Gaming.
Percentage of Gaming 56% of Wynn gaming areas in North America were smoke-free in 2020.
Floor Where Smoking Is
Allowed
SV-CA-320a.1
Wynn North America 2020 Employees in Smoke-Friendly Gaming Areas
Smoke-Free
Casinos Percentage of Gaming Property Percentage of Gaming Employees
Staff Who Work in Areas Working in Smoke-Friendly Areas
Where Smoking Is Allowed Wynn Las Vegas 78%
Encore Boston Harbor 0%
SV-CA-320a.2
Wynn North America
52%
Total
SASB
REPORTING
INDEX
BACK TO TABLE OF CONTENTS
Wynn Resorts 2020 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report SASB Reporting Index 83
Topic Disclosure Title Disclosure Statement
Anti-Money Laundering Statement
We adhere to the American Gaming Association’s Best Practices for Anti-Money
Laundering Compliance. We follow the Best Practices to promote and foster a
culture of compliance, by allocating substantial employee time to AML compli-
ance, which includes:
• Establishing a system of internal controls and policies and procedures to
assure ongoing compliance with AML requirements.
• Ensuring independent testing of AML compliance, of a scope and frequency
Description of Anti-Money
Internal that matches the money laundering and terrorist financing risks present.
Laundering Policies &
Controls
Practices
on Money • Training casino personnel, as warranted for individual jobs, in the
Laundering identification of unusual financial transactions or suspicious activities,
SV-CA-510a.1
in the recording and aggregation of currency transactions, and all legal
requirements and the casino’s compliance policies and procedures.
• Designating an individual or individuals responsible for assuring day-to-day
AML compliance at all venues.
• Providing adequate resources to compliance functions.
SASB
REPORTING
INDEX
BACK TO TABLE OF CONTENTS
Wynn Resorts 2020 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report SASB Reporting Index 84
SASB Hotel and Lodging Standards
Topic Disclosure Title Disclosure Statement
No Wynn Resorts properties are located in the following protected sites in 2020:
-UNESCO Biospheres
Number of Lodging
-Natura 2000 areas
Facilities Located in or
-Ramsar sites
Near Areas of Protected
Conservation Status or
According to World Database of Protected Areas (WDPA):
Endangered Species
Wynn and Encore Las Vegas: Not located on protected land.
Habitat
Encore Boston Harbor: Not located on protected land.
Wynn Macau: Not located on protected land.
SV-HL-160a.1
Wynn Palace: Not located on protected land.
Source: Protected Planet’s World Database of Protected Areas (WDPA)
Conservation and Ecosystem Protection Statement
Our company takes pride in building welcoming, vibrant, and healthy
environments for our guests and employees. We maintain our five-star resorts
by applying attention to detail to all we do, including managing the environmental
elements of our operations. Whether it’s integrating clean and renewable energy
resources, creating drought tolerant landscapes, reducing single-use plastics,
increasing waste diversion rates, or developing Zero Carbon – Zero Waste event
Ecological services, our core principle of Caring About Everyone and Everything is always at
Impacts the forefront of our business decisions.
Encore Boston Harbor is located in the watershed area along the banks of the
Description of Mystic River. The resort was built and is managed with environmental health as
Environmental a top priority. The land and riverbed were fully remediated, removing harmful
Management Policies chemical toxins that dampened biological life. When building the coastal edge
and Practices to Preserve to the resort, we built a living shoreline of plants and organic material that would
Ecosystem Services reestablish a habitat for river wildlife. These successful programs have brought
more herring to the Mystic River than have been seen in decades.
SV-HL-160a.2
At Encore Boston Harbor we continue to preserve the ecosystem that was
rebuilt along the river. Our employees volunteer with the Mystic River Watershed
Association’s water chestnut and shoreline cleanup events. These events support
and rejuvenate healthy levels of oxygen for aquatic life in the Mystic River, as well
as bring life back to the river’s trails and shorelines. Our outdoor landscaping
is meticulously managed to avoid excess water runoff, ensuring that excess
nutrients do not contribute to algae blooms in the Mystic River.
SASB
REPORTING
INDEX
BACK TO TABLE OF CONTENTS
Wynn Resorts 2020 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report SASB Reporting Index 85
Topic Disclosure Title Disclosure Statement
Using the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Flood Insurance Rate
Map, we identified Encore Boston Harbor resort as located in a Special Flood
Hazard Area (SFHA).
Wynn and Encore Las Vegas: No Flood Risk (Zone X: area of minimal flood
hazard, outside the SFHA and higher than the elevation of the 0.2% annual-
chance flood)
Encore Boston Harbor: Flood Risk (Zone AE: The Special Flood Hazard Area
Number of Lodging
where base flood elevations are provided)
Facilities Located in 100-
Climate Change
year Flood Zones
Adaptation Source: U.S. National Flood Insurance Program
SV-HL-450a.1
Using the FM Global Flood Risk analysis for the Macau Peninsula and Cotai,
the 100- and 500-year flood levels for Wynn Macau and Wynn Palace were
estimated to be 2.8 and 3.4 meters above the mean sea level. At both Wynn
Palace and Wynn Macau, the ground-level elevation is about 4.5 meters above
mean sea level, and the surrounding streets are at an elevation of 4.2 meters
above mean sea level. The risk is deemed to be minimal.
Source: FM Global Flood Risk
SASB
REPORTING
INDEX
BACK TO TABLE OF CONTENTS
Wynn Resorts 2020 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report SASB Reporting Index 86
