20
23
Sustainability Report
2
Contents
About this report 03 Responsible business conduct 64
Executive statements 04 Ethics and compliance 65
2023 highlights 05 Cybersecurity 67
Intellectual property 68
Our business 06
Political engagement 69
Business segments 06
Appendix 71
Sustainability at Xylem 07
Accounting principles 72
Sustainability strategy 08 Datasheet 75
Sustainability governance 19 Reporting frameworks 77
Sustainable finance 21
Innovation 22 Assurance 82
Commitments, recognitions and ratings 24
Impact on the environment 26
Operational sustainability 27
Water management 29
Energy efficiency and emissions reduction 30
Waste management 33
Biodiversity 34
Product sustainability 36
Impact on society 38
Human rights 39
Our people 40
Health and safety 51
Responsible sourcing 53
Community impact 56
About this report Xylem 2023 Sustainability Report 3
About this report
Forward-looking statements
The 2023 Sustainability Report describes our approach and Except where otherwise noted, the 2023 sustainability data be based on standards for measuring progress that are still
performance on the sustainability topics that are of most in this report has been presented on a consolidated basis for developing, internal controls and processes that continue to
interest to our stakeholders, including where Xylem can have the legacy Xylem and legacy Evoqua. For the years 2019 to 2022 The statements included in this report regarding future evolve, and assumptions that are subject to change in the
greatest impact. It encompasses our fiscal year from January and in cases where it was not possible to consolidate data (e.g., performance and results, expectations, plans, strategies, future. Forward-looking statements are based upon current
1, 2023, to December 31, 2023 (published in May 2024), for all due to the companies' different fiscal years or data availability), priorities, commitments, and other statements, including beliefs, expectations, and assumptions and are subject to
entities under Xylem’s operational control. we disclose the data separately. We have restated certain data those related to our social, environmental, and other significant risks, uncertainties, and changes in circumstances
that deviates 5% or more from our prior reports. The basis sustainability goals, that are not historical facts are forward- that could cause actual results to differ materially from the
This report was prepared with reference to the standards for restating previously reported data, the relevant calculation looking statements within the meaning of the U.S. federal forward-looking statements.
of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). In prior years, the methods, and the data limitations are explained in the appendix securities laws.
reporting was done in accordance with the standards, but of this report under “Accounting principles” on p. 72-74. A detailed discussion of risks and uncertainties that could
we are currently aligning the results of our double materiality We based our reporting on the best available data, though we Forward-looking and other statements in this report cause actual results and events to differ materially from
assessment with our sustainability reporting practices. We also note that data collection methods are maturing and improving, regarding our environmental and other sustainability plans such forward-looking statements is included in “Item 1A.
integrated disclosures in accordance with the standards of the and we expect this to continue. and goals are not an indication that these statements are Risk Factors” in our Annual Report. Readers of this report are
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB). necessarily material to investors, to our business, operating cautioned not to rely on these forward-looking statements
Selected data on key performance indicators is subject to results, financial condition, outlook or strategy, to our impacts since there can be no assurance that these forward-looking
In this report, we use the terms “legacy Xylem” and “legacy limited assurance by Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance (LRQA), on sustainability matters or other parties, or are required to statements will prove to be accurate. We expressly disclaim
Evoqua,” which refer to the business and operations of each and can be found on p. 82-84. be disclosed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking
legacy organization prior to Xylem’s acquisition of Evoqua on Commission (“SEC”) or other regulatory authorities. In statements, whether as a result of new information, future
May 24, 2023. Several metrics were reported separately through To share your thoughts and suggestions, addition, historical, current, and forward-looking social, events, or otherwise.
the end of 2023. “Xylem” refers to the combined company. please contact us at sustainability@xylem.com environmental, and sustainability-related statements may
Executive statements Xylem 2023 Sustainability Report 4
A message from Matthew Pine A message from Claudia Toussaint
As we approach 2025, and the As we continue to embed these three Empowered to Lead:
completion of our current set of strategic focus areas across the
sustainability goals, we will strive business, we are prioritizing those areas Culture change starts with leadership.
to embed “high impact” into all our where Xylem can make a meaningful To that end, Matthew, and the full senior
sustainability commitments. There are contribution to sustainable development leadership team have been participating
three primary areas where we can play and water security. in mentorship, sponsorship, and
a meaningful role, and to which we are reverse mentorship programs, actively
aligning our strategic sustainability Likewise, we have landed on three demonstrating their commitment to
goals. In the next five years, we’re behaviors that are the foundation of diversity, equity, and inclusion.
committed to: our High-Impact Culture and which
play directly into our approach to Accountable to Deliver:
● Decarbonizing the water sector, sustainability and our workforce.
The sustainability reporting world
● Accelerating water stewardship As Xylem’s Chief People and continues to evolve, but our approach
practices, and Sustainability Officer, I’ve had the to prioritize the areas where Xylem can
pleasure of thinking critically about be truly “high impact” remains the same.
● Advancing WASH (Water, Sanitation, Xylem’s greatest asset – our people – We continue to aim for transparency
As I complete my first five months as and Hygiene) access and capacity Maximizing Xylem’s and how we create an environment for in our results and are committed to
CEO of Xylem, I am excited about the building sustainability and social them to thrive. In addition to our flexible Xylem’s purpose of building a more
market momentum we have – and by work standards, we provide thoughtful water-secure world.
efforts by introducing
our deep sense of responsibility to deliver Our entire Xylem senior leadership team and comprehensive benefits for
High-Impact Culture
solutions and services that enable a is committed to building on our legacy employees to maintain physical, mental, Our High-Impact Culture will be the
sustainable future. of delivering positive environmental and and financial well-being. cornerstone of our success and
social impacts. We do this by continually As we brought Xylem and Evoqua together instrumental in creating an environment
This past year was genuinely finding new and innovative ways to in 2023, we recognized the need to be Inspired to Innovate: that fosters innovation, leadership,
transformational for Xylem – positioning drive shared value with our customers intentional in the way we combine the two employee development, ownership, and
our company for its next phase of growth and communities – and by creating an legacy organization’s cultures, maximizing By creating an environment that inspires accountability. And I know our customers
and global impact. We joined forces with environment in which our employees can the best of both organizations. We have our people, they, in turn, are inspired to and colleagues will let us know when we
Evoqua in 2023, significantly expanding bring their best. an opportunity to elevate the way we work make their own impact. Through our get it right.
our capability to protect water resources and better respond to customer needs. To Watermark corporate social responsibility
by helping our industrial customers embed This includes a deep commitment embrace this, we are introducing our High- program and volunteer time off, our
water stewardship in their operations. to fostering a diverse workforce and Impact Culture. people are empowered to make a
implementing practices that drive equity difference in their own communities.
Through this combination, we are and inclusion. I look forward to sharing For us, “high impact” has always been
developing a High-Impact Culture that more about our progress toward these how we think about our Sustainability Our success is built on an inclusive work
harnesses the power of Xylem’s talented focus areas and goals, as the year unfolds. program. We have focused our environment where everyone plays a Claudia Toussaint
people and partners. sustainability efforts on three primary pivotal role. In 2023, we also completed a Senior Vice President,
areas where we can make the biggest gender pay-equity analysis for countries Chief People and Sustainability Officer
Our partnership with Idrica expanded our difference: decarbonizing the water with significant employee populations.
capability to provide a range of digital sector, accelerating water stewardship We are working to resolve any remaining
solutions to water utilities globally. Check practices, and advancing WASH access pay disparities and improve our annual
out our white paper, Ripple Effect: A and capacity building. compensation process.
Movement Toward Digital Transformation, Matthew F. Pine
to learn more about the impact that these President and Chief Executive Officer
solutions are having.
Highlights Xylem 2023 Sustainability Report 5
2023 highlights
Customers Company Communities Awards
of our major sites reached suppliers (49% of total 2024 Net Zero Carbon
of water treated for reuse – of legacy Xylem employees
all three 2025 Goals (use 100% spend) signed onto Water, Champion – Global Water
>13B m3 2025 Customer Sustainability >650 89% volunteered through our
11/22 renewable energy; use 100% Sanitation, and Hygiene Awards
Goal reached Watermark program
process water recycling; achieve (WASH) pledge Read more here
zero waste to landfill)
of polluted water prevented of legacy Xylem’s global 2024 America’s Most
from flooding communities or supplier base by spend disaster areas provided Responsible Companies –
>7B m3 >43% 30
Launched our
entering local waterways – 2025 completed EcoVadis with humanitarian aid #2/600 Newsweek (ranked #2 out of
High-Impact Culture
Customer Sustainability Goal assessment 600 companies)
Read more on p. 40
reached Read more here
Added a new five-year $1 billion
people reached 2024 Best Place to Work for
$1B revolving credit facility to our 3.8M
of global gender pay equity with WASH solutions LGBTQ Equality in the U.S.
0.8B m3 of non-revenue water reduced 83% suite of green financing tools
assessment completed – Human Rights Campaign
Foundation (4th consecutive
year against new criteria)
people reached
of U.S. gender and race/ 3.3M
New 2030 water commitment with water education 2024 Sustainable Debt Awards
87% ethnicity pay equity
launched to scale our impact for Sustainability-linked loan of
assessments completed
the year (Americas)
Read more here
Joined forces to support the
United Nations (UN) Water
Action Agenda at UN 2023 2024 RoSPA Awards
Water Conference (Royal Society for the
Read more here Prevention of Accidents)
Read more on p. 52
Built momentum from COP28
Read more here
Our business Xylem 2023 Sustainability Report 6
Our business
Xylem is a leading global water technology Business segments
company committed to solving the world’s
critical water challenges with innovation
Water Infrastructure Measurement and
and expertise. Our approximately
Control Solutions
23,000 employees worldwide and global
Our Water Infrastructure segment primarily
distribution network consisting of direct supports the process that collects water Our Measurement and Control Solutions
from a source, treats it and distributes it segment develops advanced technology
sales forces and independent channel
to users, and then treats and returns the solutions that enable intelligent use and
partners in approximately 150 countries wastewater responsibly to the environment conservation of critical water and energy
through two closely linked applications: resources. It delivers communications,
delivered combined pro forma revenue of
Transport and Treatment. smart metering, measurement and control
$8.1 billion in 2023.
capabilities, and critical infrastructure
technologies that allow customers to
use their distribution networks more
We design, manufacture, and service highly engineered effectively for the delivery, monitoring, and
products and solutions across a wide variety of critical control of critical resources such as water,
Applied Water Water Solutions and
applications, primarily in the water sector. Our broad electricity, and natural gas.
portfolio of products, services, and solutions address Services1
customer needs of scarcity, resilience, quality, and Our Applied Water segment encompasses We also provide analytical instrumentation
affordability across the water cycle, from the delivery, the use of water to serve a diverse set of used to measure and analyze water quality, Our Water Solutions and Services segment
treatment, measurement, and use of drinking water to the customers in the commercial, residential, flow, and level in clean water, wastewater, provides tailored services and solutions, in
collection, testing, analysis, and treatment of wastewater and industrial end markets. and outdoor water environments; and collaboration with customers and backed
and the return of water to the environment. Some of our software and services including cloud- by lifecycle services, including on demand
market-leading brands have been familiar to customers for Residential consumers represent the based analytics, remote monitoring water, outsourced water, recycle/reuse,
more than 100 years. end users in the residential market, and data management, leak detection, specialty dewatering, and emergency
while owners and managers of condition assessment, asset management, response service alternatives to improve
For financial statement periods ending after January 1, properties such as apartment buildings, and pressure monitoring solutions. operational reliability, performance, and
2024, the Company will report the financial position retail stores, institutional buildings, environmental compliance.
and results of operations of its Integrated Solutions and restaurants, schools/universities,
Services segment together with the dewatering business, hospitals, and hotels are examples of Key offerings within this segment also
currently within our Water Infrastructure segment, and end users in the commercial market. include equipment systems for industrial
the assessment services business, currently within our The industrial market includes original needs (influent water, boiler feed water,
Measurement and Control Solutions segment, in a new equipment manufacturers (OEMs), ultra-high purity, process water, wastewater
segment that will be referred to as Water Solutions and exploration and production firms, treatment, and recycle/reuse), full-scale
Services. agricultural customers, and developers outsourcing of operations and maintenance,
and managers of industrial facilities, and municipal services, including odor and
such as electrical power generators, corrosion control services, as well as leak
chemical manufacturers, machine shops, detection, condition assessment, and asset
clothing manufacturers, marine, food and management, and pressure monitoring
beverage companies, and car washes. solutions.
1 This business segment was formed on January 1, 2024,
and did not exist in the period covered by this report.
7
Sustainability
at Xylem
Sustainability strategy 08
Sustainability governance 19
Sustainable finance 21
Innovation 22
Commitments, recognitions and ratings 24
© Kenny Khoo (Xylem)
Sustainability at Xylem Xylem 2023 Sustainability Report 8
Sustainability strategy
Sustainability is at the core
of everything we do – from
Supply Chain Operations
our own operations to the
Partnering with suppliers Conducting our business
solutions we provide customers to develop a responsible, with integrity, minimizing
resilient, transparent, and our environmental footprint,
that impact communities
diverse supply chain while protecting health and safety,
around the world. Setting high supporting their own and promoting employee
sustainability journey. well-being.
sustainability standards enables
our growth and purpose: to
build a sustainable and resilient
company while advancing
the smarter use of water and
empowering our customers to
Product Customers
solve global water challenges.
Delivering products that Helping our customers reduce
help reduce our customers’ water scarcity and loss, and
environmental impact and optimize water systems to make
delivering on our commitment to water more affordable through
product safety and minimizing our wide range of products and
our products’ footprint. application expertise.
Sustainable finance Communities
Leveraging our leadership Promoting sustainability and
in sustainability to develop water stewardship worldwide
attractive and sustainable through thought leadership,
financial strategies. innovative solutions, technical
expertise, community
partnerships, and a commitment
to youth education.
Sustainability at Xylem Xylem 2023 Sustainability Report 9
Our impact across the value chain
Our customers Our company Our communities
We build strong partnerships committed
to sustainability by working across our
entire value chain. Engaging suppliers,
colleagues, customers, and other partners
in practices that support a healthy
business ecosystem is key to driving
positive change across the industry.
Our customers are critical partners in solving the world’s Integrating sustainability into everything we do is crucial Communities around the world face mounting challenges
water and sustainability challenges. With our wide range of to building a resilient and profitable business. We strive when it comes to accessing reliable and safe water
products and application expertise, we help our customers to conduct our business with integrity, minimize our sources. Through our innovative solutions, technical
manage water scarcity, reduce water loss, and optimize environmental footprint, continuously improve the quality of expertise, community partnerships and commitment to
water systems to make water more affordable. our products, protect health and safety, promote the well- youth education, we continue to promote sustainability and
being of our employees, and foster diversity, equality, and water stewardship worldwide.
Our technologies and solutions enable water operators inclusion.
to monitor and manage water resources more effectively.
Our solutions help prevent stormwater pollution, protect
against flooding, reduce water demand, and reduce
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions so water operators and
communities can better mitigate and withstand the effects
of climate change.
Sustainability at Xylem Xylem 2023 Sustainability Report 10
Our three
treatment, and many other areas in which water services net-zero emissions faster, working with utilities to help
strategic pillars Decarbonize are critical to our daily lives. Water is often discussed in them achieve their climate targets. We provide solutions
the context of climate adaptation – extreme weather, across the water lifecycle – with a particular focus on
the water sector
drought, and unreliable access to services – but more water and wastewater utilities -- and play a leadership
rarely in relation to climate mitigation. role in promoting net-zero ambitions across the water
Three strategic pillars guide our actions to sector, globally.
achieve Xylem’s ambitious Sustainability Water and wastewater utility operations are estimated We remain committed to achieving net-zero emissions
to contribute more than 2% of global GHG emissions. by 2050 and meeting more immediate targets in the Given our emissions profile, achieving our Scope 3 intensity
Goals for 2025 and beyond. They address
Water use and management accounts for roughly 10%, interim. We also see the opportunity to promote adoption reduction target depends on global transition to renewable
the greatest challenges our stakeholders including the energy to move water, agriculture-related use, of technologies that will bring the entire water sector to energy sources. See p. 30-32 for further detail.
face and highlight where Xylem and our
solutions play a unique role in creating
We will accelerate the water sector’s need to decarbonize through:
lasting, positive impact. As 2025
approaches, we are looking ahead to ● Working with partners to increase the resources ● Partnering with regulators on utility ● Raising awareness in global climate ● Providing industry thought leadership.
available for utilities on net-zero journey. decarbonization. action community.
2030 and setting ambitious commitments
aligned with each pillar.
We will decarbonise the water sector through the following:
This year, we are adding commitments
in two of our pillars to complement Supply Chain: Scope 1: Scope 2: Scope 3: Impact of our solutions: Accelerating new solutions:
commitments already underway. ● Increasing visibility of Committing to transitioning ● Continuing to transition As more than 95% of our ● Continuing to increase ● Partnering with Xylem
emissions through CDP to lower emission fleet towards renewable energy Scope 3 emissions lie in visibility in full life cycle Innovation Lab to
and Ecovadis. options such as EV/Hybrid, to achieve our 2025 Category 11 (Use of sold (LCA) of products, by advance decarbonization
as most of our Scope 1 goal of 100% renewable products), our reduction piloting first full LCAs in solutions.
● Reporting blended Scope
emissions are linked to energy at major facilities relies on: several product lines and
3, Category 1 emissions ● Partnering with LORENTZ
our fleet. while also focusing on producing first product
to include actuals from ● Evolution of solution mix to provide greater solar
legacy Evoqua facilities in sustainability report.
CDP reporting and See p. 32 for more to greater digital and options to portfolio.
the coming years.
financial model for the information. services revenue. ● Increasing visibility into
first time in 2023. See p. 30 for more end-of-life waste-related
● Global “grid greening”.
information. emissions.
See p. 30-31, 53, and 55
● Partnership with
for more information. ● Continuing to measure
customers to utilize more
“use phase” emission
renewables.
abatements for customers.
See p. 37 for more
In April 2024, Global Water Intelligence
information.
recognized Xylem’s leadership for the second
time, with its “Net Zero Champion” Award
We hold ourselves accountable by setting our own decarbonization targets:
● 2025 Goal to reach 100% ● 2025 Goal to enable customers to ● Setting science-based targets for ● Tying objectives to compensation ● Increasing visibility for our
renewable energy at major reduce their GHG footprint by more Scope 1, 2, and 3 by 2025 and and green finance commitments. customers with reporting.
facilities. than 2.8M metric tons. committing to net-zero by 2050.
Sustainability at Xylem Xylem 2023 Sustainability Report 11
In line with those commitments, we are adding greater
Accelerate corporate visibility into how much our solutions help customers Advance water, sanitation, and hygiene (WASH)
reduce their water demand. To quantify that impact, we
water stewardship access and capacity building
are looking predominantly at how reuse and leak detection
reduces customers’ annual water demand. For example,
when installing a reuse application, we calculate the total
Responsible water stewardship is an increasing priority anticipated treated volume the solution will process each Today, the demand for clean, safe, and affordable water
for industrial and commercial building users. Many year to estimate the annual reduction in customer demand exceeds available supply. More than 1.4 billion people live
industries are recognizing that reliable water sources and for source water. We will only quantify a solution’s annual in areas of high water vulnerability, according to UNICEF2. Improve water security for 100M people
management are integral to reducing business disruption impact in the year it is sold. More than 840 million people lack access to drinking through 2030 with climate resilient technology,
risks, as well as to achieving responsible stewardship water, and 2.3 billion to latrines or other basic sanitation capacity building, and partnerships.
commitments for their communities and the environment. Combined, Xylem and Evoqua have a powerful portfolio of facilities 3.
At the 2023 UN Water Conference, the first since the solutions to reduce annual water demand. We anticipate
1970s, the Global Commission on Water released a report adding further solutions as we continue to integrate our In communities around the world, water scarcity is being ● Reach an additional 80M people by enabling
with projections that global freshwater demand will systems and capabilities, and will update stakeholders exacerbated by the changing climate, population growth, climate resilient WASH access and capacity
outpace supply by 40% by 2030. on progress via our annual sustainability report. Our poor water management, conflict, and increased migration. building in under-resourced, water-insecure
water stewardship goal is supported by three targets that The least-served communities endure impact on health communities through 2030 (adding to
In response, more companies are setting water directly align with SDG 6 targets 6.3, 6.4, and 6.5. and nutrition, childhood education, family poverty, and existing 20M goal by 2025).
stewardship commitments and assessing their impact broader economic development. Women and girls suffer
on local watersheds. With the addition of Evoqua’s suite disproportionately.
of solutions for the industrial water market, Xylem is a
technology and services partner of choice, enabling water Through Xylem Watermark, we improve WASH access in
operators to advance water stewardship and reduce risks under-resourced, water-insecure communities. Over the
related to changing water resources. Additionally, water past four years, working toward our 2025 Goal of providing
and wastewater utilities play a key role in watershed Reduce global water demand with our WASH access to 20 million people, we have gained valuable
stewardship and are often the first to feel the effects solutions and services, greater accountability insights and built strong partnerships.
of the climate crisis, such as severe storms or drought- in our supply chain, operational efficiences,
related shortages. We are bringing innovative technology and impactful partnerships. Leveraging those partnerships, our technology, and our
and approaches to more effectively manage and use ability to advance innovative models, we have committed
water resources, while also continuing to expand services to expanding our impact to an additional 80 million people
to underserved communities. ● Enable customers to reduce demand through 2030. We will focus on climate-resilient WASH
by at least 2B cubic meters through 2030. access and capacity-building in under-resourced, water-
We also consider our water stewardship practices across insecure communities. Collaboration remains crucial,
our entire value chain. We are reducing our water intensity ● Reduce Xylem’s water intensity by 30% involving our NGO and business partners, our employees,
across our operations by 30% and will increase visibility through 2030. and the wider community.
and reporting of water stewardship practices in our supply
chain. Our 2030 commitments also focus on empowering ● Reduce the water intensity of our supply
our partners to achieve their water commitments with our chain through greater accountability of
solutions and expertise. our high-impact suppliers through 2030.
2 UNICEF – Water security for all (2021)
3 UNICEF – Water and sanitation
Sustainability at Xylem Xylem 2023 Sustainability Report 12
Spotlight
Our commitment to a more water secure future
to look inward at our own operations and among others. Our new water goal and
impact. Setting a water stewardship goal corresponding targets are based on a 2030
connects us to our purpose: to empower our commitment. While it might be obvious, this
customers and communities to build a more new goal is focused solely on water and/or
water-secure world. It also communicates water-related risks and opportunities. Our
our commitment to our new High-Impact 2025 Sustainability Goals focus holistically
Culture. Setting this goal has pushed our on sustainability, with goals related to
teams to be innovative and empowered decarbonization, diversity, employee
to lead, and will hold us accountable to volunteering, etc. It is our hope that we will
deliver results to our stakeholders and continue to see an uptick in water-related
Decarbonize the Accelerate corporate WASH access and communities. goals in our industry and others in the
water sector water stewardship capacity building future.
Q: What strategies or initiatives is Xylem
Lead by example and Reduce global water Improve water security planning to implement to reach this water Q: How does Xylem plan to address any
enable customers to reach demand with our solutions for 100M people through goal? challenges or uncertainties associated with
net-zero GHG emissions, and services, greater 2030 with climate resilient achieving this water goal?
by…
accountability in our technology, capacity Austin: Water is a complex challenge and
supply chain, operational building, and partnerships, just like any complex challenge, cannot Austin: Each functional area is supported
● Developing 1.5°C efficiences, and impactful by… be solved by one person or one company. by a dedicated team of subject matter
science-based targets partnerships, by... Our new water stewardship goal is built on experts (SMEs) who stay abreast of the
for GHG reductions ● Reaching an additional the understanding that many players, from evolving sustainability and water landscape.
across Scopes 1, 2, ● Enabling our 80M people with An interview with Austin our own employees and suppliers to our We recognize that climate change will
and 3 by 2025. customers to reduce climate resilient WASH business partners, will need to be involved increasingly strain global water resources,
Alexander, VP Sustainability &
demand by 2B m3 access and capacity to achieve our targets. For example, our leading to severe impacts on water quality
● Reaching net-zero through 2030. building in under- Social Impact, about Xylem’s stakeholders will help us spread education and scarcity. Despite the uncertainties
by 2050. resourced, water- and awareness when it comes to water this may bring, we will remain proactive in
new 2030 water commitment
● Reducing our water insecure communities insecurity and WASH, we will collaborate anticipating and preparing for the impacts
intensity by 30% through 2030. with our suppliers on sustainable water of climate change. Our water stewardship
through 2030. management best practices, and we will goal focuses on enhancing water security,
Q: How does the new 2030 water use our own innovative solutions and water ultimately working to mitigating these
● Reducing the water commitment align with Xylem’s overall technology experts to reduce our own water impacts.
intensity of our supply sustainability and social impact strategy? consumption.
chain through greater
accountability of our Austin: In many ways, our new commitment Q: How is this goal different from Xylem’s
high-impact suppliers reflects the evolution of our sustainability current 2025 Sustainability Goals?
through 2030. and social impact culture at Xylem. We’ve
communicated in the past that we are Austin: Our 2025 Sustainability Goals are
uniquely positioned to lead by example still core to our sustainability program,
when it comes to sustainability due to spanning all of Xylem’s functional areas.
the nature of our business, and this water We will continue to work toward
goal is no different. We work every day achievement of all remaining 2025 Goals
to help solve the world’s most pressing still in progress and plan to set 2030
water challenges alongside our customers. commitments for diversity, equity, and
However, we acknowledge our responsibility inclusion, fleet sustainability, and safety,
Sustainability at Xylem Xylem 2023 Sustainability Report 13
Our 2025 Sustainability Goals
Our 2025 Sustainability Goals remain 2025 Customer Sustainability Goals
the cornerstone of our sustainability
program, reinforcing our commitment to
environmental and social responsibility. Progress: Reduce over 3.5 billion cubic meters of non-revenue water Reduce water’s CO e footprint by over 2.8 million metric tons
2
In 2023, we reached two significant
2023 update 2023 update
Following the acquisition of Evoqua, milestones. Since 2019, we have enabled + 0.80B m3 + 1.15M MT
our customers to treat over 13 billion cubic
we reviewed the goals of both legacy
meters of water for reuse and to prevent 2.71B m3 3.95M mt
Progress to 2025 Progress to 2025
companies in detail to determine how to over 7 billion cubic meters of polluted water
2.71B m3 Goal exceeded: 3.95M MT
from flooding communities or entering
best integrate them. In this section, we
local waterways. These accomplishments
Measurement: Legacy Xylem only Measurement: Legacy Xylem only
present our updated 2025 Goals, along complement our previously achieved goal
of enabling customers to reduce their CO e
with a description of changes and the 2
footprint by over 2.8 million metric tons.
Treat over 13 billion cubic meters of water for reuse
rationale behind them. Certain goals will
remain specific to legacy-Xylem until the These objectives remain central to our 2023 update
strategy and mission, underscoring
+ 3.11B m3
end of 2025.
our ability to help customers curb GHG
emissions, reduce water demand, and 13.36B m3
Progress to 2025
implement proactive water management
Goal exceeded: 13.36B m3
practices. We will continue to track and
report on these goals through the end
Measurement: Legacy Xylem only
of 2025. For further insights into these
objectives, please refer to our Product
Sustainability section.
Prevent over 7 billion cubic meters of polluted water from
flooding communities or entering local waterways
Methodology update:
2023 update
Our 2025 Customer Goals are directly tied to
+ 1.90B m3
specific legacy Xylem products. Integrating
legacy Evoqua products into these goals 8.44B m3
Progress to 2025
would have required methodological changes
Goal exceeded: 8.44B m3
and the contributions of these products
would have been immaterial. While these
Measurement: Legacy Xylem only
goals were not combined, we are committed
to communicating the positive environmental
impact of our combined product line, which
is evidenced by our new commitment to
reduce global water demand by 2030, which
leverages a wide range of solutions from both
legacy companies.
Sustainability at Xylem Xylem 2023 Sustainability Report 14
Spotlight
By integrating expertise and
Buffalo Sewer Silfex
By using data and resources, BDG developed In 2023, Silfex was
Authority
analytics, the city was digital platforms for flood (Eaton, Ohio, recognized as the winner
(Buffalo, NY, United States) able to improve the quality prevention and chemical United States) of legacy Evoqua's North
of local waterways while dosing, establishing the American Annual Water
Aging water infrastructure, solving a long-standing foundation for future Silfex, a leading supplier Sustainability Award
the effects of climate problem with reduced treatment plants. of precision components after demonstrating
change and tight budgets investment in new used to make and remarkable improvements
for funding upgrades mean infrastructure. BSA’s Smart BDG's digital transformation operate semiconductor in water sustainability at
that utilities must innovate Sewer or Real Time Control enabled it to increase its manufacturing equipment, its Springfield, Ohio facility.
to solve critical challenges. system has achieved 3 operational efficiency and worked with legacy Evoqua The award has been
In the City of Buffalo, New billion gallons of combined reduce carbon emissions. to develop a reverse continued as Xylem’s global
Scottish Water
York, nearly two billion sewer overflow (CSO) The Wujiacun sewage plant osmosis membrane for Sustainability Excellence
(Stepps, Scotland) gallons of sewer overflows volume reduction since the is a testament to these brine recovery and an Award.
With the introduction of end up in local waterways first two real time control benefits. BDG's new digital ultrapure water system
Scottish Water, Scotland's Avensor, Xylem's digital each year. We have worked sites were commissioned solutions have increased that captures process
Increase in
publicly owned water solution for pump station with the Buffalo Sewer in 2016. Today there are daily processing capacity water overflow from
Beijing Drainage reuse of total
supplier, provides essential monitoring, in 2020, Scottish Authority (BSA) to enable nine sites in operation with by 20% and enabled Silfex's precision cleaning
Group
water and wastewater Water saw an additional this customer to manage the a tenth site coming online higher pollutant treatment processes to reuse discharged water:
services to more than 2.6 opportunity to make its large volumes of combined this year, reducing CSO (Beijing, China) while lowering energy throughout the company's
80%
million households and operations more efficient. sewer overflows, harnessing volume by roughly 1 billion consumption by 10-15%. operations.
150,000 businesses. In Avensor collects, analyzes, the power of machine gallons per year. The BSA In 2016, Beijing Drainage This optimization is in
2019, they committed and transmits pump station learning, hydraulic modeling, is now a greener operation Group (BDG), a leader in line with Beijing's carbon The new system will allow
to achieving net-zero data via the cloud, giving and data, and analytics with a solution that limits adopting digital solutions neutrality targets, which the plant to reuse up to
emissions by 2040 by operators real-time insights to optimize its network the need for carbon- to address the challenges aim to reduce emissions 80% of all discharged water,
focusing on renewable into performance. To date, regardless of the weather. intensive infrastructure, of water accessibility, by 20% by 2025, with plans saving millions of gallons
energy and investing Avensor has been installed enabling the city to make affordability, and resilience, for further reductions and annually and reducing the
heavily in innovative, in more than 160 pump Similar to a traffic app, more efficient use of its launched a three-year digital full carbon neutrality by plant's water consumption.
environmentally friendly stations for Scottish Water, the smart sewer system existing infrastructure and action plan. BDG focused 2050. BDG's efforts set a The system will also reduce
technologies. with more being added uses data from sensors advance its environmental, on digitizing its wastewater benchmark for low-carbon the need for pre-treated
every month, significantly across the network to economic, and water treatment plants, leveraging treatment plants and municipal source water,
In that same year, Scottish reducing unplanned pinpoint buildups of management goals. best practices and demonstrate the potential resulting in significant
Water began working with maintenance and repair wastewater. This data, resources, and partnering of digital transformation to savings on water softening
Xylem to trial the Flygt callouts. enables the BSA to divert with companies like Xylem achieve sustainability goals. salt and other chemicals.
Annual CSO
Concertor pumping system flow to underutilized parts to realize the full potential
volume reduction:
in a few pumping stations to of the system when other of the most innovative
Reduction of Increase in daily
reduce wastewater energy parts of the network are digital technologies and
1B gallons
energy use during processing
consumption and reactive under pressure. In a city solutions. After analysis,
maintenance. In an initial trial of Flygt with extremely localized it was clear that Xylem's capacity:
Find out more.
trial, the Flygt Concertor weather patterns, this Flygt pumps and mixers
concerter:
20%
pumping system reduced sensor network allows would help BDG's integrated
unplanned maintenance 60% individual sites to treatment plant networks
by 99.8% and reduced communicate with each operate more efficiently. Find out more.
energy consumption by other and create capacity
Find out more.
approximately 60%. where it is needed most.
Sustainability at Xylem Xylem 2023 Sustainability Report 15
2025 Company Sustainability Goals (Operations)
Progress: Use 100% renewable energy at our major facilities 6 Achieve packaging material consisting of 75% reusable,
recyclable, or compostable content
As of 2023, 11 of our 22 4 major facilities
2023 update
have successfully achieved all three major
Added 2 new facilities Progress to 2025
facility goals. An additional five major
Goal achieved: 85% of packaging
facilities have accomplished both 100% 19
Progress to 2025 85% consists of reusable, recyclable,
process water recycling and zero waste to
19/22 or compostable content
landfill. Two more facilities have reached the
milestone of 100% renewable energy.
Measurement: Legacy Xylem only
Measurement: Legacy Xylem only
Methodology update:
Use 100% process water recycling at our major facilities 7
We made the strategic decision to maintain
Develop 1.5°C science-based targets for GHG reductions
the three goals tied to major facilities 5
2023 update across Scopes 1, 2, and 3
specifically focused on the 22 legacy Xylem
Added 5 new facilities
facilities within our original target scope.
2023 update
Rather than incorporating additional legacy 17
Progress to 2025 We are reevaluating our SBTi
Evoqua facilities into these goals, which
17/22 targets as a combined company.
would have required extending the timeline ongoing
Validation is expected by 2025.
for achievement beyond 2025, we opted to
Measurement: Legacy Xylem only
integrate legacy Evoqua facilities into other
objectives aimed at GHG emissions and
Measurement: Combined
water footprints. This integration entails
Achieve zero waste to landfill from processes at
aligning the two legacy companies with
our major facilities 8
updated 2030 science-based targets and
a 2050 net-zero commitment. In addition,
2023 update
we are prioritizing reduction of our water
Added 5 new facilities
intensity at select legacy Evoqua facilities
with higher water demand, maintaining our 17
Progress to 2025
focus on a concerted effort toward achieving
17/22
our Sustainability Goals.
Measurement: Legacy Xylem only
4 Slaton, (Texas) USA, a previously identified major facility, closed in
2023. Since the facility was open for part of 2023, their impact to
the goals has been tracked for this reporting year. In reporting year
2024, our major facilities denominator will shift to 21.
5-8 Major facilities are defined as those 22 facilities with manufacturing
activities that are the top contributors to Xylem’s water, waste, or
GHG metrics, or are in areas with extremely high water-stress risk.
See more information in the accounting principles on p. 72-73.
Sustainability at Xylem Xylem 2023 Sustainability Report 16
2025 Company Sustainability Goals (Supply Chain)
Progress: Require suppliers to take the WASH4Work Pledge for access Require suppliers to disclose Scope 1 & 2 GHG emissions
to safe water, sanitation, and hygiene at the workplace and water usage via CDP Supply Chain
In 2023, our total diverse spend in the
United States grew, accompanied by an
2023 update 9 2023 update 9
increase in supplier disclosures through
+ 9% + 3.4%
CDP and EcoVadis. We take pride in
the participation of our suppliers in the 49% 35.8%
Progress to 2025 10 Progress to 2025 10
WASH4WORK commitment, as it constitutes
49% of global spend 35.8% of global spend
a fundamental component of our social
impact strategy.
Measurement: Legacy Xylem. Measurement: Legacy Xylem.
Combined starting 2024. Combined starting 2024.
Methodology update:
During the initial phase of integration, we
Revised Goal: Establish a supplier diversity program
successfully consolidated our supplier
and increase supplier diversity to 9.2% of total Engage suppliers in sustainability initiatives through
information, enabling us to combine
U.S. supplier spend 11 audit programs and corrective action plans
reporting of the two companies from 2024
onward. However, we encountered variances
2023 update 9 2023 update 9
in baselines between the two companies,
+ 1.1% Began to include legacy Evoqua
necessitating adjustments to certain goals.
10.2% supply base
As a result, our target for U.S. supplier ongoing
Progress to 2025 10
diversity spend was revised from 12% to
Goal exceeded: 10.2% Progress to 2025 10
9.2% to accommodate changes in supplier,
Continue to evolve and progress
product, and project mix. Although other
Measurement: Legacy Xylem. both remote and on-site
targets remained unchanged, modifications Combined starting 2024. assessments
to our internal key performance indicators
(KPIs) were imperative to facilitate alignment
Measurement: Combination began in 2023.
with our evolving organizational landscape.
Require all suppliers to disclose sustainability information
via EcoVadis or equivalent
2023 update 9
+ 3.7%
43.4%
Progress to 2025 10
43.4% of global spend
Measurement: Legacy Xylem.
Combined starting 2024.
9 2023 update based on original legacy Xylem 2025 Goal.
10 Progress to 2025 based on original legacy Xylem 2025 Goal.
11 Original Goal: Establish a supplier diversity program and increase
supplier diversity to 12% of total U.S. supplier spend.
Sustainability at Xylem Xylem 2023 Sustainability Report 17
2025 Company Sustainability Goal (Workplace)
Progress: Revised Goal: Achieve 29% representation of women in Achieve at least an average of 50 hours per employee per
leadership positions 14 by 2025, 35% by 2030, through year of rich learning and development opportunities to build
In 2023, we welcomed approximately 4,000
merit-based retention, promotion, and recruitment 15 Xylem’s ability to solve water for decades to come
new employees as part of the integration
with Evoqua. Notably, our hiring of women
2023 update 2023 update
for leadership positions surpassed that of
- 0.3% (compared to 2022 16.75 hours per employee
men. We also saw an increase in our average
legacy Xylem %)
learning hours per employee, reflecting our 25.1% 16.75
Progress to 2025
commitment to professional development.
Progress to 2025 16.75/50
We launched "Sustainability 101," Xylem's
25.1% / 29%
first formal sustainability training on the
Measurement: Combined
Xylem Learning Center, marking a significant
Measurement: Combined
milestone in our sustainability initiatives.
Additionally, we combined all development
Ensure 100% of employees have access to clean water and
programs from both legacy companies in
Revised Goal: Achieve 21% minority representation in U.S. safe sanitation at home and during natural disasters
preparation for 2024.
leadership positions 16 by 2025, 25% by 2030, through
merit-based retention, promotion, and recruitment 2023 update
Methodology update: Refined tracking and addition of
2023 update legacy Evoqua employees
Following the combination with Evoqua, it was ongoing
- 1.7% (compared to 2022
clear we would need to revise certain workplace
legacy Xylem %) Progress to 2025
goals. Leveraging combined data early in our 19.2%
Continue to monitor for
integration process, we opted to maintain
Progress to 2025 any gaps in access
all but two of our targets. Our "women in
19.2% / 21%
leadership" goal was adjusted from 35% to 29%
Measurement: Combined
women in leadership positions12 by 2025 and
Measurement: Combined
from 50% to 35% by 2030. Similarly, our "U.S.
minority in leadership" goal now aims for 21%
Reduce injury frequency to an incident rate of 0.5 or below
representation in the United States. leadership
Assess and monitor equitable pay practices with the
roles by 2025 compared to the previous 25%,
goal of eliminating pay differences based on gender, 2023 update
with the target of reaching 25% by 2030.
race, or ethnicity Legacy Xylem: 0.5
Legacy Evoqua: 0.8
0.5
Challenges in achieving these goals stem
2023 update Combined = 0.6
from turnover, the availability of, and difficulty
Executing plans to reduce and close
attracting, diverse talent in the sector, and lower
identified gaps by 2025 Progress to 2025
diversity in legacy Evoqua leadership. Informed ongoing
Remained at 0.5 for legacy Xylem
by McKinsey research 13 indicating that Xylem
Progress to 2025
12, 14, 16 “Leadership positions” are defined by an internal salary
meets or exceeds industry benchmarks for band structure that reflects executive and critical
83% of global gender pay equity Measurement: Combined
women in leadership, we revised our 2025 leadership positions.
assessment completed 17
diverse representation goals accordingly. 13 McKinsey Women in the Workplace 2023 report.
Please note that the workforce figures in this
87% of U.S. gender and race/ 15 Original Goal: Achieve 35% representation of women in
report pertain to the combined company,
ethnicity pay equity assessments leadership positions by 2025, 50% by 2030, through merit-based
unless specified otherwise.
completed 17 retention, promotion, and recruitment.
17 Assessment of pay equity completed for eligible employees.
Measurement: Combined The majority of non-eligible employees are paid either on the
basis of union contracts or collective agreements.
Sustainability at Xylem Xylem 2023 Sustainability Report 18
2025 Community Sustainability Goals
Progress: Provide 15 million people with water education to improve Provide paid time off for Xylem employees to Give 1% of company profits19 to water-related causes
quality of life and raise awareness of water issues volunteer 1% of their time and education
In 2023, we celebrated a record-breaking
89% Watermark participation rate among
2023 update 2023 update 2023 update
our legacy Xylem employees and made
3.3M people Average of 9.9 hours Donated 0.8%, or $4.8M, through
substantial strides toward our WASH
financial and in-kind equipment
access goal by providing clean water and 10.3M 9.9 ongoing
Progress to 2025 Progress to 2025 donations
sanitation solutions to an additional 3.8
10.3M/15M 10 hours of volunteer time off
million people living in under-resourced
available for all employees Progress to 2025
communities. We also reached an
Measurement: Combined Surpassed 1% target in 2022
additional 3.3 million individuals through
Measurement: Legacy Xylem. (1.1%), on track to meet 1%
water education initiatives and provided Combined starting 2024. by 2025
humanitarian aid in response to 30 water-
Provide access to clean water and sanitation solutions for
related disasters.
at least 20 million people living at the base of the global Measurement: Combined
economic pyramid Engage at least 95% of Xylem employees
in volunteer activities
Methodology update: 2023 update
Provided access to 3.8M people 2023 update
The integration with legacy Evoqua
+ 2%
presented an opportunity for the combined 12.7M
Progress to 2025
company to enhance employee, supplier, 89%
12.7M/20M Progress to 2025
and business partner involvement in
89%
Watermark. Analysis of existing targets
Measurement: Combined
confirmed that including legacy Evoqua in
Measurement: Legacy Xylem.
all social impact targets was appropriate, Combined starting 2024.
without altering the targets themselves.
Deploy humanitarian aid to 200 areas affected
Given that the legacy companies operated
by water-related natural disasters 18
independently for almost half of calendar
Engage 100,000 stakeholders in volunteer events
year 2023 and legacy Evoqua employees
2023 update
lacked access to Xylem’s volunteer hours
30 2023 update
tracking system, the employee volunteering
2,413
metrics in this report pertain solely to legacy 111
Progress to 2025
Xylem. However, all other social impact 18,558
111/200 Progress to 2025
goals encompass legacy Evoqua. We will
18,558/100,000
report combined metrics starting in 2024.
Measurement: Combined
Measurement: Combined
18 See a definition of water-related natural disasters in
the accounting principles on p. 72-73.
19 “Company profits” is defined as GAAP Net Income.
Sustainability at Xylem Xylem 2023 Sustainability Report 19
Sustainability governance
Robust governance structures are Strong governance starts with our highest
critical to our sustainability work, governing body, Xylem’s Board, which is led by
an independent Board Chair. The Board, primarily
supporting the effectiveness and Board of Directors
through its Nominating and Governance Committee,
credibility of our sustainability oversees the company's approach to sustainability reviews sustainability
and corporate social responsibility, while the full as a strategic value
programs, goals, and reporting.
Board reviews sustainability as a strategic value driver
Nominating &
From our Board of Directors (Board) driver. In addition, the Leadership Development and
Governance
Compensation Committee oversees the company's
to those individuals driving the
Committee CEO and Senior Goal Deployment
approach to talent management and development,
achievement of our goals, we seek including how the company advances diversity, oversees approach Leadership Team Committee
to maintain a governance structure equity, and inclusion. The Board and its committees to sustainability and executes our reviews progress
regularly discuss with management our approach corporate social sustainability strategy against our 2025
that provides strong oversight with
to sustainability, including risks and opportunities, responsibility and drives progress Sustainability Goals and
responsiveness to operational needs. implications for the company’s strategy, our progress toward our strategically other communicated
in meeting our sustainability commitments, and our aligned goals goals
Leadership
sustainability reporting.
Development &
Compensation Sustainability & Sustainability
Our Chief Executive Officer, Chief People and
Committee Social Impact Team Reporting & Green
Sustainability Officer, and members of the senior
Finance Committee
leadership team execute our sustainability strategy oversees approach to develops and
and drive progress toward our strategically aligned talent management and coordinates the provides guidance
goals. To further drive executive execution of development, including sustainability and social on our green
sustainability performance, several sustainability- how we advance impact strategy and finance strategy and
related goals have been included in executive diversity, equity and drives compliance with sustainability reporting
compensation. inclusion sustainability reporting strategy
regulations
The Sustainability Goal Deployment Committee
Audit Committee Disclosure
reviews progress against our 2025 Sustainability
Sustainability Leads Committee
Goals and other communicated goals to strengthen oversees financial
the analysis and reporting of our Sustainability Goals reporting processes drive action plans that reviews voluntary
and initiatives, and the Sustainability Reporting and and controls, and support the achievement sustainability
Green Finance Committee reviews and advises compliance with of our sustainability goals disclosures for accuracy
on our green finance strategy and the ongoing legal and regulatory across operations, supply
refinement of our sustainability reporting strategy, requirements chain and product
which aims to provide our stakeholders with
contextualized, transparent, and reliable information
about our sustainability performance. Both
committees meet quarterly.
Sustainability at Xylem Xylem 2023 Sustainability Report 20
Sustainability reporting process Guiding reporting frameworks
Sustainability reporting is evolving due to increasing regulatory We report in reference to the GRI Standards in our annual
requirements in our key markets. To meet these growing sustainability reporting to disclose information on general
requirements and to enhance the integrity of our disclosures topics such as the business, the environment, society, and
and transparency, we continue to work to strengthen our human rights. We are also guided by the relevant industry-
reporting practices to support sustainability reporting. specific standards of the Sustainability Accounting Standards
Board (SASB), the recommendations of the Task Force on
Double materiality assessment exercise Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), and the United
Nations Global Compact.
Recently, we conducted a double materiality assessment
exercise as part of the combination with Evoqua and in In 2023, we assessed the impact of the European CSRD and
preparation for reporting under the European Corporate ESRS on Xylem's sustainability reporting and began our work
Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD) requirements. to comply with these new regulatory requirements.
This work has helped us start to identify potentially relevant
sustainability topics based on the European Sustainability
Risk management oversight
Reporting Standards (ESRS). Unlike our prior materiality
assessments to identify topics of interest to our stakeholders
and inform our voluntary reporting, the double materiality Identifying and mitigating risks improves our decision making
approach under the CSRD requires consideration of both and prioritization of time and resources. Management is
impact and financial materiality. Accordingly, we have responsible for day-to-day management of the company’s
considered how Xylem as a company impacts people and the risks, including the creation of appropriate risk management
planet and how sustainability issues impact the financial well- programs, policies, and practices. As part of this responsibility,
being of the company. We intend to provide an update on our Xylem’s management conducts an Enterprise Risk
double materiality assessment in future sustainability reports. Management program – an evergreen process that uses a
widely accepted framework to identify, assess, monitor, and
The disclosures in this report are primarily based on Xylem’s communicate the company’s strategic, operational, financial,
previous materiality assessments. compliance, and reputational risks. The Enterprise Risk
Management risk register includes Sustainability and Climate
Xylem’s Sustainability Management System Risk among the risks the program assesses and monitors.
Xylem’s Sustainability Management System governs our Management incorporates Enterprise Risk Management into
sustainability reporting processes and provides guidance on the company’s strategy, strategic planning, and business
what sustainability content and data are reported, as well as operations. As an integral and ongoing part of its work, the
how and where such content and data are disclosed. It also Board oversees management’s approach to risk management
defines the responsibilities of key stakeholders and other and execution of its risk management responsibilities.
processes that enable our sustainability priorities to resonate
throughout our organization. It is regularly updated based on Further details on delegated responsibility of risk oversight by
best practices, findings from our sustainability program, and the Board are provided on p. 21 of our 2024 Proxy Statement.
actioning recommendations from Xylem’s Internal Audit team For more information on governance at Xylem,
to meet the expectations of our stakeholders and the changing see the GRI Content Index (p. 77-79).
regulatory landscape.
In 2023, we further strengthened our internal controls to
enhance the integrity of our disclosures by consulting with
Xylem’s Internal Audit team to develop a control framework for
ESG reporting. The application of the new control framework is
planned for 2024.
Sustainability at Xylem Xylem 2023 Sustainability Report 21
Sustainable finance
Aligning positive environmental and social The 2023 credit facility builds on a long history of aligning
impacts with economic outcomes has our sustainability and financial strategies. Other examples
include:
benefitted our business and demonstrates
our commitment to keeping sustainability at ● Partnering with a women-led impact platform to invest a
portion of our cash on hand in mission-driven banks and
the center of everything that we do.
credit unions that facilitate investments in underserved
communities.
In 2023, we added a five-year revolving credit facility, which ● Opening an ESG-linked demand deposit account that
includes pricing adjustments based on Xylem's achievement ties yields on deposits to the achievement of our 2025
of certain sustainability related targets, in addition to its credit Sustainability Goals.
rating. These targets drive climate mitigation action across our
value chain and include: ● Completing a $1 billion green bond offering, with proceeds
allocated to projects to improve water accessibility,
● Reducing Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions. affordability, and resiliency.
● Enabling customers to reduce their GHG emissions by ● Migrating supply chain finance agreements to sustainable
using our products – an extension of our existing 2025 frameworks that offer benefits for participating suppliers
Customer Sustainability Goal. that initiate and improve their EcoVadis (or equivalent)
scores.
● Increasing the percentage of suppliers reporting
environmental data to EcoVadis or equivalent ratings – an We expect to continue to apply a sustainability-based
extension of our existing 2025 Supplier Sustainability Goal. financing strategy that supports our mission to achieve
meaningful environmental and social outcomes.
These targets relate to legacy Xylem only and will be
updated by the first quarter of 2025 to include legacy Evoqua.
They undergo third-party limited assurance.
Our $1B revolving credit facility received the
Environmental Finance’s 2024 Sustainable Debt
New five-year Award in the category “Sustainability-linked loan
of the year – Corporate (Americas)”.
$1 billion
revolving credit facility
Sustainability at Xylem Xylem 2023 Sustainability Report 22
Innovation
The Xylem Innovation Labs partnerships program is designed to bring the
most innovative solutions to market, with three key pillars in mind:
For us, innovation and sustainability go Research and development
hand in hand. Innovation is required to
Research and development is a key foundation of our
deliver solutions for advancing water
growth strategy, promoting a steady flow of innovative,
security across markets we serve. high-quality, and reliable products and integrated solutions
to further strengthen our position in the markets we serve.
But beyond our technology solutions,
We focus on the design and development of products,
innovation is embedded in the way we services, solutions, and application know-how that address
anticipated customer needs and emerging trends. Our Developing innovative Deploying advanced financing Partnering with leading
work, the way we partner, the way we
engineers are involved in developing new products, services, programs and unlocking new mechanisms to catalyze the venture capital and accelerator
apply technology, and the way we develop and solutions as well as improving existing assets to technologies adoption of innovative water partners
increase customer value. technologies
talent for the sector.
Xylem Innovation Labs hosts Xylem is a limited partner in
Research and development activities are initially conducted an annual Accelerator Program Commercializing and scaling The Westly Group and Burnt
Inspiring youth worldwide to solve global in our technology centers, located adjacent to our major to prepare entrepreneurs to early-stage innovations is Island Ventures, working closely
water challenges plays an important manufacturing facilities to enable an efficient and robust sustainably advance and consistently cited as the biggest with these funds to scout, and
development process. We have several global technical grow their businesses. It pain point water startups deploy capital in, early-stage
role in our approach to innovation.
centers and local development teams around the world supports startups that tackle experience in developing their water-focused companies.
Find out more about our youth programs where we support global needs and accelerate the key sustainability challenges businesses, resulting in many
customization of our products, services, and solutions to including: promising and potentially Xylem Innovation Labs also
on p. 61.
address local needs. impactful technologies not partners with Imagine H2O, a
● Building platforms that advancing beyond the pilot global nonprofit organization
In 2023, our Product Sustainability team collaborated with help customers map N O stage. To address this funding that promotes water innovation.
2
our global Product Management teams to perform a Voice emission risks and deploying challenge, Xylem Innovation Imagine H2O’s innovation
of Customer (VOC) assessment regarding their sustainability sensors to measure nitrates/ Labs has sponsored the Isle ecosystem, startup accelerator
priorities. In addition to informing technology investments, nitrites. Utilities Trial Reservoir, a programs, and pilot funding
this and other VOC assessments support the development of pooled private revolving loan offerings help entrepreneurs
Xylem’s sustainability commitments especially as related to ● Using nanobubbles and algae fund to finance the piloting scale solutions faster.
water, an impact area that Xylem’s customers prioritized as for advanced wastewater of technologies that mitigate
high or higher than carbon impacts. treatment (while reducing the climate change.
carbon footprint of a plant’s
operations).
Xylem Innovation Labs
● Using small water turbines
To expand our bandwidth and increase our access to to generate carbon-free
technology, our corporate innovation partnership program electricity.
and venture capital investing group, Xylem Innovation Labs,
cultivates the water innovation ecosystem by fostering ● Utilizing digital tools to
and developing cutting-edge technologies that address improve response time of
global water challenges. It supports our customers by utilities for service requests
understanding their needs and partnering with the most and emergencies.
promising startup founders and universities through a
formalized partnership program.
Sustainability at Xylem Xylem 2023 Sustainability Report 23
Spotlight “Sustainability is not just part of our
product roadmap or a goal we have
committed to, but a fundamental aspect
of how Xylem approaches innovation.”
innovative, modern technology, but also Q: What are the current innovation trends
innovating the ways we work and the at Xylem?
ways Xylem can deliver solutions to our
customers and communities. Snehal: We are seeing an increasing need
and demand for highly efficient water
Sustainability is not just part of our product technologies from our customers. Of
roadmap or a goal we have committed to, course, digitization is top of mind. Driving
but a fundamental aspect of how Xylem improvements across an operational
approaches innovation. When we design water cycle, such as wastewater networks,
new products or services, we aim for treatment plants, etc. can be complex and
products and processes that maximize costly. To help solve for this, Xylem’s digital
our customer’s abilities to solve their suite, Vue, helps utilities mitigate water loss
sustainability challenges, while also and improve performance by integrating
minimizing any negative impact across and managing all data from any source in
the lifecycle of our solutions. For example, a single platform for a complete view of
Xylem has developed water treatment the entirety of the water and wastewater
technologies that reduce the need for network. Digital solutions help to deliver
harmful chemicals, helping to conserve greater visibility, performance, compliance,
resources and protect the environment for and remarkable cost savings.
An interview with Snehal Desai, generations to come.
Chief Growth and Innovation Water solutions that focus on energy
Q: How does Xylem incorporate reduction is another emerging need we
Officer, on the intersection
sustainability into innovation strategies for have seen among our customers. To
between innovation and goal achievement? advance their sustainability reduction
commitments, our customers are looking
sustainability
Snehal: We know that innovation, whether for improved efficiency throughout the
related to our products, operations, or entirety of their operational water cycle.
our customers’ and suppliers' practices, Xylem's hydrovar® X variable speed pump
Q: How would you describe how is vital to meeting our goals. We embed drive solution enhances the intelligence
sustainability and innovation intersect Sustainability into our product development of both new and existing pumps. This
at Xylem? process and tools, what we call “Design solution is easy to install and enhances
for Sustainability.” Additionally, our Xylem water efficiency, leading to reduced energy
Snehal: At Xylem, sustainability and Innovation Labs push us to find the most consumption and costs, all while optimizing
innovation are deeply intertwined. We innovative technologies and solutions, often performance and addressing the carbon
cannot solve the world’s greatest water with positive environmental and social footprint associated with water usage.
challenges without innovation. This includes benefits for our customers.
Sustainability at Xylem Xylem 2023 Sustainability Report 24
Commitments, recognitions, and ratings
As a signatory to each of these compacts, pledges, and mandates, we are committed to continuous
progress in alignment with their core elements. This helps us to better understand and manage our own
environmental, social and corporate governance opportunities and risks.
United Nations Global CEO Water Mandate Race to Zero Women’s Empowerment Human Rights Campaign Additional commitments
Compact Principles Foundation's Global Business include:
Coalitions
The United Nations Global Compact The CEO Water Mandate was The Race to Zero is a global campaign, The Women’s Empowerment ● American Business Act on Climate
(UN Global Compact) is a corporate established in 2007 by the UN Secretary under the banner of the United Nations Principles (WEPs) provide guidance to The Human Rights Campaign Pledge
sustainability initiative developed by General and the UN Global Compact in Framework Convention on Climate companies on how to promote gender Foundation’s Global Business Coalition
● “We Are Still In” Declaration
the United Nations for businesses to partnership with the Pacific Institute to Change (UNFCCC), rallying support equality and women’s empowerment is a consortium of major global
align their operations and strategies advance corporate water stewardship from businesses, cities, and regions in the workplace, marketplace businesses committed to upholding ● Business Roundtable Pledge
with the United Nation’s universal key around the world. In 2017, we endorsed to take rigorous and immediate action and community. The WEPs were workplace protections for lesbian, gay,
● Time to Vote
sustainability principles in the areas of the CEO Water Mandate and committed to halve global emissions by 2030 established by UN Women and UN bisexual, and transgender employees
human rights, labor, environment, and to adopting and implementing a and promote sustainable growth. Global Compact and are based on – along with the rest of their workforce ● United Nations (UN75) Uniting
anti-corruption. We first committed comprehensive approach to water In 2021, we joined a consortium of international labor and human rights – everywhere they do business. Xylem Business Statement
to the UN Global Compact in 2002, management that incorporates the partners including the UNFCCC High standards and the recognition that became a coalition member in 2018.
● World Business Council for
and annually report and publish our initiative’s six commitment areas. Level Climate Action Champions, companies have an interest in and a
Sustainable Development WASH
progress on implementing its Ten CDP, Water UK, the US Water Alliance, responsibility for gender equality and
at the Workplace
Principles. the International Water Association, women’s empowerment. Xylem has
GIZ and others to help water utilities been a signatory since early 2019. ● UN Standards for Business Tackling
commit to reducing GHG emissions. Discrimination Against LGBTQ+
People
Additionally, we work with partners to
drive the Race to Zero commitments
● Human Rights Campaign
Foundation’s Business Coalition
of water and wastewater utilities to
for the Equality Act
support decarbonizing the water sector.
● Charta der Vielfalt (Germany)
Sustainability at Xylem Xylem 2023 Sustainability Report 25
Sustainability ratings
MSCI: AAA ISS ESG Corporate Rating: ISS ESG Quality Score: CDP Climate Change: B EcoVadis: Silver – 91st percentile
Prime – Decile rank 2 • Environment 1
(as of June 2023) (as of February 2024) (as of February 2024)
• Social 1
(as of June 2023)
• Governance 3 CDP Water: C
(as of May 2024) (as of February 2024)
CDP Supplier Engagement: B-
(as of May 2024)
Recognitions
NEWSWEEK BARRON’S
2024 Net Zero Carbon 2024 America’s Most Just 2024 Best Place to Work 2024 Sustainable Debt 2024 SDG2000 2023 DE&I Award 2024 America’s Most 2024 100 Most Sustainable
Champion Companies (ranked #6 out for LGBTQ Equality in the Awards for Sustainability- Most Influential Companies (Large Cap) Finalist Responsible Companies Companies (ranked #15)
of 60 in Industrial Goods U.S. (4th consecutive year linked loan of the year – (ranked #2 out of 600
industry; #153 out of 937 against new criteria) corporate (Americas) companies)
overall) 20
2024 America’s Greatest
2024 Top Performer and Workplaces for Diversity
Top in Industry in the Hiring
& Stability category in JUST
Jobs Scorecard
20 Due to an error in JUST Capital’s data system, which resulted in some of our responses receiving a lower score than they should have, our ranking does not accurately reflect our performance. JUST Capital is aware and confirmed that the impact was minimal (appx. 3-6 overall ranks), and did not
impact the composition of leadership designations like the JUST 100, Industry leaders, or the JUST U.S. Large Cap Diversified Index (JULCD). The ranking will be corrected by JUST Capital in future product releases.
26
Impact on the
environment
Operational sustainability 27
Water management 29
Energy efficiency and emissions reduction 30
Waste management 33
Biodiversity 34
Product sustainability 36
Impact on the environment Xylem 2023 Sustainability Report 27
Operational sustainability
Progress towards our 2025 Goals in 2023
We integrate sustainability into Progress on our 2025 Company
everything we do to effectively reduce Sustainability Goals (Operations) Use 100% renewable energy Use 100% process water Achieve zero waste to landfill at
at our major facilities recycling at our major facilities our major facilities
our environmental impact, preserve
With a global operational footprint spanning 21 countries and
resources, and enhance the welfare of the comprising 54 manufacturing facilities, our commitment to
sustainability extends across diverse regions. In 2019, we 2023 update: 2023 update: 2023 update:
communities we serve.
identified 22 21 major facilities 22 , with significant energy, Added 2 new 19 Added 5 new 17 Added 5 new 17
waste, and water impacts. However, while those major facilities facilities facilities
facilities provide the greatest opportunity for positive change,
Our approach to sustainability goes beyond mere our sustainability practices influence all 420 Xylem facilities.
compliance; it aims to generate enduring value and
resilience. We employ rigorous tracking and reporting The 2025 Sustainability Goals for our operations serve as vital
Xylem’s “Triple Crown” facilities
mechanisms to monitor our progress, underscoring our benchmarks across our key operational categories: water
dedication to transparency and accountability. Our digital management, waste management, energy efficiency and
Environment, Health, and Safety metric database allows us emissions reduction.
to track environmental projects at our sites and manage
environmental data effectively and reliably. By the end of 2023, seven major facilities attained These are in addition to the major facilities that
Validation process of goal
what we call internally “Triple Crown” status by attained Triple Crown status in 2022:
achievement achieving all three 2025 Goals:
We hold ourselves to high standards:
After a facility indicates that it has achieved a goal, internal
● The combined company currently has 88 facilities that are teams review data aligned with specific support criteria Calamba in the Philippines Dubai in the United Arab Emirates
certified to ISO 14001: Environmental Management; tailored to each Goal type, such as quantity of water used
151 facilities certified to ISO 9001: Quality Management in production, water recycling rates, or waste recycling and
and five facilities certified to ISO 50001: Energy reuse types. In 2022, we assessed the on-site goal validation
Management. process for renewable energy in San Diego (California) USA, Chihuahua in Mexico Nanjing in China
zero waste to landfill in Texarkana (Arkansas), USA, and
● Of our 22 major legacy Xylem manufacturing facilities, process water recycling in Chihuahua, Mexico, to determine
45% are certified to ISO 14001, and 86% to ISO 9001. the effectiveness of our internal validation process. An external
auditor confirmed that it met audit standards by reviewing Emmaboda in Sweden Montecchio in Italy
● 21% of Xylem’s 420 facilities are certified to ISO 14001 evidence collected by the local sites.
and 36% to ISO 9001.
In 2023, a third-party also independently collected, analyzed,
and compared relevant data to validate our process water Herford in Germany Texarkana (Arkansas)
recycling Goal, tied to our revolving credit facility. This process in the United States
ensures an objective assessment and validation of our
operational water sustainability achievements. Lubbock (Texas)
Morton Grove (Illinois)
Pewaukee (Wisconsin)
in the United States
11 major facilities
21 Slaton, Texas (USA), a previously identified major facility, closed in 2023. Since this facility was open for part of 2023, its impact to the Goals
in total have achieved Triple Crown status
has been tracked for this reporting year. However, in reporting year 2024, our major facilities will be reduced to 21.
22 Major facilities are defined as those 22 facilities with manufacturing activities that are the top contributors to Xylem’s water, waste or GHG
metrics, or are in areas with extremely high water-stress risk. See more information in the accounting principles on p. 72-73.
Impact on the environment Xylem 2023 Sustainability Report 28
Emmaboda
Sweden
Spotlight
How three of our European major facilities achieved triple crown status
Quenington Herford
United Kingdon Germany
In Europe, five of our sites are major facilities: Emmaboda in Sweden, Herford in Germany, Montecchio in Italy,
Quenington in the United Kingdom, and Stara Tura in Slovakia. While Montecchio achieved triple crown status in
2022, Emmaboda and Herford followed suit in 2023. Let's delve into how they accomplished this...
Use 100% renewable energy
Montecchio, Emmaboda, and Herford seamlessly transitioned to renewable energy
sources by making strategic switches in their energy providers.
Use 100% process water recycling
In 2021, Montecchio implemented an on- In 2023, Emmaboda commissioned an Recognizing the water-intensive nature of
site wastewater treatment plant to recycle on-site water treatment plant dedicated to its pressure testing process, Herford took
process water. This initiative, alongside gathering and recycling process water from proactive steps to address the issue. With
other efforts, has led to a reduction in water testing and cooling operations. This plant, changes in local regulations permitting the
consumption by 15,000 cubic meters since fully operational since February 2023, now use of recycled water for pressure testing
Stara Tura
2019, constituting a 37% decrease in overall recycles 100% of the site's process water. under certain conditions, the site installed
Slovakia
water usage for the site. As a result, Emmaboda has achieved a 46% two closed-loop systems for this purpose.
Montecchio
reduction in overall water usage compared As a result, Herford now recycles 100% of
Italy
to pre-project levels. its processed water.
While the European team is proud Site-specific measures, such as
Achieve zero waste to landfill from processes
of its great strides in achieving the splash guards to reduce water
2025 Sustainability Goals ahead of consumption and enhance
Montecchio sought to discontinue Emmaboda initiated a process to segregate Herford was well-positioned to achieve schedule for most major facilities, safety or adjusting industrial
the disposal of hazardous waste from slag for reuse, resulting in a 50% decrease in this objective from the outset due to 2005 they are not content to stop there. washer temperatures to minimize
wastewater treatment processes into total landfill waste. Additionally, the site now German legislation already banning waste evaporation and conserve water,
landfills. Accordingly, the site conducted separates steel grit from other materials, to landfill. We have developed a manual were also included.
a comprehensive review of all chemicals allowing it to be reused by other foundries, to help all sites to reduce their
utilized in its treatment procedures and thereby contributing to an additional 20% environmental footprint. The
worked to replace them with alternatives reduction in landfill waste. manual outlines various actions,
that generate no landfill waste. Furthermore, including installing water meters,
the site engaged with waste suppliers to analyzing water consumption
prevent any waste from reaching landfills against working hours, maintaining
throughout the waste supply chain. water systems, and implementing
water-saving fixtures like sensor
taps and low-flow toilets.
Impact on the environment Xylem 2023 Sustainability Report 29
Water management
As a company committed to addressing 2023 progress Water consumption in 2023 (in ML)
global water challenges with our products
In 2023, legacy Xylem reduced its water withdrawal by 9%,
and solutions, we recognize the impact Combined Legacy Xylem Legacy Evoqua 24
contributing to an overall decrease of 33% since 2019, with a
our own water consumption has on local water intensity of 0.048. Legacy Evoqua facilities experienced
Total water withdrawal 2,556 297.1 2,259
a 5% increase in overall water withdrawal in 2023. Together,
watersheds.
the combined company’s water withdrawal totaled 2,556 Total water recycled and reused 2,101 227 1,874
megaliters. Water recycled and reused (%) 82% 76% 83%
As we aim to lead by example, we remain dedicated to
Total water treated and released 32.6 32.6 -
minimizing our water footprint through reduction and reuse by Legacy Xylem continued its commitment to water
Total revenues (millions USD) 8,146 25 6,187 -
leveraging our own technology where possible, particularly in conservation by recycling and reusing 227 megaliters,
regions facing water scarcity. Our operational water-reduction representing a 6% decrease from 2022, and treating and Total water intensity (ML / - 0.048 -
efforts, like our new 2030 water goal, reflect our dedication to releasing 33 megaliters. Legacy Evoqua’s water reuse annual revenues in millions USD)
optimize and digitize water and implement reuse systems. increased at its top nine facilities by approximately 33%
compared to 2022, equivalent to 455 megaliters. This increase
With the Evoqua acquisition, our service portfolio expanded, is due to the growth of legacy Evoqua’s resin regeneration
increasing our combined water footprint. Legacy Evoqua's business and meter improvement initiatives.
resin regeneration and ion exchange service, while mitigating 82%
landfill disposal and virgin resin procurement, is water- Overall, the combined company recycled and reused 82%
intensive. However, over 90% of the water used in the resin of its total water withdrawn in 2023, the equivalent of 2,101
of total water withdrawn was
regeneration facilities is currently being reused. megaliters.
recycled and reused
We are actively devising water management plans at these
sites, focusing on water withdrawal reduction. In 2023, five 23 out of the 22 major facilities achieved the
significant milestone of recycling and reusing 100% of their 5 major facilities
process water, bringing the total to 17 facilities overall.
achieved our 2025 Goal of recycling and
reusing 100% of process water in 2023
2023 highlights:
● After installing a new central cooling and chiller system, our
facility in Uniontown, (Pennsylvania) USA, reduced its total
water withdrawal in 2023 by more than one million gallons
or approximately 5 megaliters.
● Our facility in Emmaboda, Sweden, significantly reduced
its water consumption by over 5 million gallons, primarily
attributable to the operation of the process water treatment
and reuse systems installed over the past three years.
23 Morton Grove, Uniontown, and Pewaukee in the United States, Emmaboda in Sweden,
● In 2023, the installation of an in-house closed-loop
and Herford in Germany.
treatment system at our facility in Nanjing, China, led
to a reduction in water usage of over 450,000 gallons, 24 Representing 45 sites (44 sites and the US/Canadian vehicle fleet) of legacy Evoqua that accounted
for over 90% of its total environmental footprint metrics.
equivalent to approximately 1.7 megaliters.
25 2023 pro forma revenue of the combined company.
Impact on the environment Xylem 2023 Sustainability Report 30
Energy efficiency and emissions reduction
We strive to be a leader in the journey to Due to the nature of our Scope 3 emissions, which
decarbonize the water sector – setting an predominantly occur in Category 11, Use of Products Sold. 2023 highlights:
Our Scope 3 reduction targets are heavily dependent on the
example by increasing energy efficiency
global transition to renewable energy production. Since our
and emissions reduction efforts across our products are utilized globally and frequently rely on electricity ● Our legacy Evoqua facility in Singapore installed solar
at our customer’s facilities, we utilize regional electric panels and redistributed surplus electricity back to the
value chain. To support our commitments,
emissions factors when calculating our Scope 3, Category grid, leading to a substantial reduction in electricity
we submitted our 2030 science-based 11. If the global energy transition to more renewable energy consumption. Since 2023, the facility has exported
production does not progress significantly through 2030 approximately 70% of its typical monthly usage, resulting in
targets to the Science Based Targets
and beyond, we face the risk of falling short of our Scope 3 an overall reduction of 50%.
initiative (SBTi) for validation in late 2022. reduction target.
● Our legacy Xylem's facility in Sydney, Australia, followed
In 2023, we invested roughly $4 million in projects aimed at suit in 2023 by installing solar panels. Additionally, the
With the acquisition of Evoqua, we are now updating our reducing GHG footprint in our operations. Projects included facility transitioned 70% of its forklifts to electric options
combined baseline to resubmit our targets to SBTi within the replacing equipment and solutions with more efficient models, and replaced 65% of its sales fleet with electric plug-in
next year. Upon finalization, we will communicate these targets improving water processing equipment, and waste reduction. hybrid vehicles.
to our stakeholders through our website and an updated
Climate Action Plan. Regardless of status of the submission, we ● Our Emmaboda site in Sweden used 12,600 gallons of
Greening our energy profile
have and will continue to reduce our emissions. biodiesel, replacing standard diesel, which led to a notable
96% decrease in CO e emissions originating from diesel
2
Our energy profile across manufacturing, office, and service fuel at the facility.
Reducing our operational
facilities continues to evolve, with an increased adoption
GHG footprint of renewable energy, particularly at commercial facilities in
the United States, alongside global investments in energy 78%
Our operational emissions footprint includes Scope 1 and 2 efficiency measures. Through strategic renewable energy
emissions. In 2023, legacy Xylem reduced its Scope 1 and purchases, we have effectively greened our energy profile in a
of electricity came from renewable sources.
2 emissions by approximately 17% compared to the 2022 cost-effective manner, particularly at facilities lacking access
calendar year. Legacy Xylem’s energy intensity in 2023 was to renewable energy sources. In 2023, 78% of the combined
54.3. Legacy Evoqua reduced its Scope 1 and 2 emissions by companies’ electricity came from renewable sources. 2 major facilities
approximately 9% compared to its 2022 fiscal year.
In 2023, two 26 of the 22 major facilities achieved the
achieved our 2025 Goal of using
This year, we consolidated the Scope 3 emissions of both significant milestone of using 100% renewable energy, bringing
100% renewable energy
legacy companies for the 2023 calendar year. This exercise the total to 19 facilities overall.
helped us to better understand our combined indirect
emissions and to identify priority categories. We intend to
leverage these results when we submit our combined 2030
science-based targets in the upcoming year.
26 Chihuahua in Mexico, and Calamba in the Philippines.
Impact on the environment Xylem 2023 Sustainability Report 31
Energy consumption in 2023
Combined Legacy Xylem Legacy Evoqua 27 Scope 1 (direct) in tCO2e continued Combined Legacy Xylem Legacy Evoqua 27
Direct energy by type (in MWh) GHG emissions in 2023 continued
Renewable electricity generated 1,526 1,526 - Mobile source gasoline 16,057 2,985 13,072
Natural gas 152,898 84,714 68,184 Mobile source diesel 28,709 15,979 12,730
Stationary source gaseous propane 161 161 - Mobile source liquid propane 389 168 221
Stationary source liquid propane 4,729 4,729 - Total mobile GHG emissions 45,156 19,132 26,024
Stationary source fuel oil 6,789 6,049 740 Total Scope 1 emissions 76,221 37,225 38,996
Total stationary energy usage 166,103 97,179 68,924
Mobile source gasoline 65,885 11,359 54,526 Scope 2 (indirect) (in tCO 2e)
Mobile source diesel 110,027 59,872 50,155 Purchased electricity 51,126 38,939 12,187
Mobile source liquid propane 1,075 6.57 1,068 Purchased heat 1,579 1,579 -
Total mobile energy usage 176,987 71,237 105,750 Total Scope 2 emissions – location based 52,704 40,517 12,187
Total direct energy usage 28 343,090 168,416 174,674 Total Scope 2 emissions – market based 18,272 5,585 12,687
Indirect energy by type (in MWh) Scope 3 (indirect) (in tCO e)
2
Purchased electricity 187,351 156,954 30,397 Category 1 – Purchased goods 869,020 - -
Purchased heat 10,565 10,565 - Category 2 – Capital goods 13,924 - -
Total indirect energy usage 197,916 167,519 30,397 Category 3 – Fuel and energy-related activities 40,998 - -
Total energy consumption 541,007 335,936 205,071 Category 4 – Upstream transport 217,852 - -
Total revenues (millions USD) 8,146 29 6,187 - Category 5 – Waste generated 14,546 - -
Total energy intensity (MWh / annual revenues in millions USD) - 54.3 - Category 6 – Business travel 31,518 - -
Category 7 – Employee commuting 45,064 - -
Category 11 – Use of sold products 61,288,587 - -
GHG emissions in 2023
Category 13 – Downstream leased assets 629,286 - -
Total Scope 3 emissions 63,150,795 - -
Scope 1 (direct) (in tCO e) Total GHG emissions (Scope 1 & 2) intensity (in tCO e / annual revenues in millions USD)
2 2
Natural gas used 28,142 15,356 12,786 Total GHG emissions (Scope 1 & 2) 128,924 77,742 51,182
Stationary sources gaseous propane 34.2 34.2 - Total revenues (millions USD) 8,146 30 6,187 -
Stationary sources liquid propane 990 990 - Total GHG emissions (Scope 1 & 2) intensity - 12.6 -
Stationary source fuel oil 1,710 1,524 186 Emissions avoided via purchased renewable energy credits 34,448 34,448 -
Cyrogenic CO 1.2 1.2 - Renewable electricity generated 800 800 -
2
Refrigerant use 188 188 - Renewable purchased heat 813 813 -
Total stationary GHG emissions 31,065 18,093 12,972 Net GHG emissions (Scope 1 & 2) incl. renewable energy 93,676 42,494 51,182
Total net GHG emissions (Scope 1 & 2) intensity - 6.87 -
27 Representing 45 sites (44 sites and the US/Canadian vehicle fleet) of legacy Evoqua
that accounted for over 90% of its total environmental footprint metrics.
28 Total direct energy usage = stationary + mobile
29, 30 2023 pro forma revenue of the combined company.
Impact on the environment Xylem 2023 Sustainability Report 32
Fleet sustainability
Safety remains our top priority, alongside timely deliveries of
our products and services. As we continue our electrification
In 2023, our commitment to reducing the emissions In 2023, efforts, we are exploring complementary innovative and
our commitment to reducing the emissions associated with data-driven solutions to reduce our fleet emissions. We are
our fleet remained a priority and key lever to reducing Scope developing a comprehensive 2030 roadmap, tailored to our
1 emissions. In 2021, we committed to transition 100% of our markets with fleet concentration and emerging markets
passenger vehicles and 80% of our global fleet, which includes regions like Africa and Latin America.
service vans and trucks, to electric or hybrid plug-in solutions
by 2025. We remain committed to this plan, although timeline
Managing other air emissions
adjustments have been necessary due to the expansion of our
fleet following the Evoqua acquisition and the growth of our
existing Xylem business. In addition to targeting Scope 1, 2, and 3 GHG emissions,
we remain committed to minimizing all air emissions where
In Europe, our teams led the way by electrifying over 800 possible, especially volatile organic compounds (VOCs). As
vehicles by the end of 2023, comprising nearly 70% of our part of our efforts to reduce VOCs and other contaminants,
European passenger fleet and 45% including commercial we continue to enhance our data monitoring and analysis
vehicles. Despite persistent challenges in electrifying a practices. These processes, which recently identified
growing commercial fleet, our commitment to reducing our additional VOC emissions, which increased our emissions for
fleet-related emissions remains steady: for the past two 2023 and 2022. We will continue to pursue our VOC emission-
years, 100% of all ordered passenger vehicles in Europe were reduction goal of 2% by 2024 for legacy Xylem.
electric vehicles and we continue to pilot plug-in hybrid electric
vehicles and battery-fueled light commercial vehicles.
2023 highlight:
However, the growing number of heavy-duty commercial
vehicles needed to provide services to our customers has
presented challenges in transitioning to hybrid and electric ● Our facility in Shenyang, China, upgraded its exhaust gas
options, particularly in North America. With the acquisition disposal system in its painting room to a Regenerative
of Evoqua and establishment of our Water Solutions and Catalytic Oxidation (RCO) system. This enables the complete
Services segment, our fleet in North America has more decomposition of VOCs, resulting in a reduction of over
than doubled in size, introducing new types of commercial 90% of VOCs compared to traditional systems. Moreover,
vehicles and equipment to our fleet. More than 270 vehicles the RCO system is digitized for consistent and efficient
in the United States and Canada are electrified, and while operation through real-time, minute-by-minute monitoring.
there is much more to do, we remain on track to meet our
electrification plans so long as infrastructure and electrified
alternatives for medium and heavy-duty vehicles continue
to improve.
Air emissions in 2023 (in t)
Combined Legacy Xylem Legacy Evoqua 31
Volatile organic compound (VOC) emissions 91.1 91.1 -
Other GHG emissions (in t)
CO 58,842 58,842 -
2
CH 17.1 17.1 -
31 Representing 45 sites (44 sites and the US/Canadian vehicle fleet) of legacy Evoqua that 4
accounted for over 90% of its total environmental footprint metrics. N 2O 79.3 79.3 -
Impact on the environment Xylem 2023 Sustainability Report 33
Waste management
Our waste management approach Diverting waste from landfill Waste management in 2023 (in t)
is guided by the waste management
Our concerted efforts to increase waste diversion from
hierarchy, which prioritizes prevention, Combined Legacy Xylem Legacy Evoqua 33
landfills at our larger facilities are yielding substantial results.
reduction, reuse, recycling, energy Through a multifaceted approach encompassing on-site
Non-hazardous waste recycled 32,067 30,680 1,387
initiatives and collaborative efforts with suppliers, we are
recovery, and, finally, treatment and
actively reducing packaging, enhancing waste segregation Non-hazardous waste to non-landfill 1,588 1,411 177
disposal. This commitment is embedded practices, optimizing recycling processes, and exploring Non-hazardous waste to landfill 8,053 5,232 2,821
innovative reuse methods. In 2023, legacy Xylem recycled
across all our facilities, encompassing Total non-hazardous waste 41,708 37,323 4,385
31,094 metric tons of waste. Legacy Evoqua recycled 2,214
the 22 major facilities included in our metric tons of waste during the same period. The combined
company recycled 33,308 metric tons of waste, representing Hazardous waste recycled 1,241 414 827
2025 Sustainability Goal aimed at
approximately 59% of the waste generated.
Hazardous waste to non-landfill 13,393 1,224 12,169
achieving zero waste to landfill.
Hazardous waste to landfill 63 12 51
Over 85% of our packaging material is comprised of reusable,
recyclable, or compostable content, exceeding our 2025 Total hazardous waste 14,698 1,651 13,047
In 2023, five32 of our major facilities successfully reached our Sustainability Goal of 75%.
target of zero waste to landfill, representing an increase from
Total waste recycled 33,308 31,094 2,214
12 facilities in 2022 to 17 in 2023. To meet the goal, a facility
must adhere to industry-wide standards, ensuring a minimum 2023 highlights: Total waste to non-landfill 14,981 2,635 12,346
of 90% waste diversion from landfills, with no more than 10% Total waste to landfill 8,117 5,245 2,872
used for energy recovery. Total waste 56,406 38,974 17,432
● Our facility in Shenyang, China, implemented low-
temperature evaporator equipment for waste emulsion,
which will reduce hazardous waste liquid by about 45 tons
annually. Nearly 90% of this liquid will be distilled into water 5 major facilities
for recycling.
achieved our 2025 Goal of sending
● Our facility in Lubbock, (Texas) United States, introduced
zero waste to landfill in 2023
a wood waste recycling program in 2023, involving the
consolidation of wood pallets, minimizing the number of
transport trips required for disposal. 59%
Management of hazardous waste of waste generated was recycled
We prioritize the responsible management of hazardous >85%
waste, continuously striving to reduce its generation wherever
feasible. Through rigorous waste management practices,
of packaging material comprised reusable,
adhering to strict regulatory requirements, and implementing
recyclable, or compostable content
32 Morton Grove, Lubbock, Cheektowaga, DuBois, and Pewaukee – best practices, we aim to minimize the impact of hazardous
all sites in the United States. materials on the environment, demonstrating our dedication to
environmental stewardship in all aspects of our operations.
33 Representing 45 sites (44 sites and the US/Canadian vehicle
fleet) of legacy Evoqua that accounted for over 90% of its total
environmental footprint metrics.
Impact on the environment Xylem 2023 Sustainability Report 34
Biodiversity
Collective action is needed to mitigate While biodiversity has not been a material focus for us in the
human impacts on our watersheds, which past, the development of frameworks and standards such as
SBTN (Science Based Targets for Nature), TNFD (Taskforce
directly influence biodiversity, ecosystem
on Nature-related Financial Disclosure), or the European
health, and human health. Our products Standard for Sustainability Reporting E4 (Biodiversity and
Ecosystems) will enable us to assess biodiversity more
and services empower our customers to
strategically in the future.
protect biodiversity and water resources,
and the knowledge, passion, and hands- Watershed restoration
on action of Xylem’s team members has
In 2023, Xylem employees around the world dedicated more
directly impacted watersheds where we
than 30,000 hours to 400 volunteer events designed to
live and operate.
protect their local watersheds and preserve biodiversity. For
example, a group of employees organized a Watermark event
We also involve our suppliers in our with Xylem’s Middle East & Turkey leadership and customers
watershed and biodiversity restoration in Ajman, United Arab Emirates to spend the day planting
mangroves – an important part of the local ecosystem that
initiatives, mobilizing our network of
helps protect coastlines from erosion, provides habitats for
employees and partners around the world various species, and stores carbon.
to take meaningful action to protect
Xylem Watermark ran a two-month Watershed Challenge
ecosystems. initiative, where employees and partners participated in
trainings and volunteer events, such as invasive species
removals, tree plantings, waterway clean-ups, rain garden
building, storm drain labeling, water body testing and more.
We collaborated with Stroud Water Research Center based in
the United States to conduct a series of webinars as part of
the challenge and participants activated donations from Xylem
Watermark to the research center.
>30,000
employee volunteering hours to
protect local watersheds and
preserve biodiversity
© Prashant Miyani (Xylem)
Impact on the environment Xylem 2023 Sustainability Report 35
Spotlight
“We have turned our site into a
many farmland birds, and the greater we have installed a water-saving irrigation
horseshoe bat. It is a place of natural beauty system that collects rainwater and thus
with rich flora and fauna. minimizes water consumption. And since green oasis for our employees
2018, we have been composting on site to
Biodiversity preservation is crucial to the keep organic waste out of the landfill. and visitors to enjoy.”
region, with the Cotswold’s being England’s
third largest protected landscape and Area In addition to our efforts at our own site in
of Outstanding Natural Beauty. With our Quenington, we actively engage with the
commitment to developing sustainable, local community on biodiversity issues
innovative water solutions that have a lasting such as the importance of biodiversity in
impact on communities, we can support local ponds and water conservation in school
efforts in a significant way. gardens. In 2023, we worked with Noah's
Oak, a local charity that provides respite
Q: Who plans the biodiversity conservation for underprivileged children. Our volunteers
measures at the Quenington site? helped maintain the woodland by clearing
paths and planting a mix of 15,000 spring
Melanie: Biodiversity conservation is a big bulbs for wildlife and children to enjoy. We
An interview with Melanie team effort here. Watermark Champions like have also engaged with local schools by
me plan the efforts and inform colleagues giving talks to primary school children about
Wade, Project Management
about the events and where they can sign up. the local waterways and their maintenance
Coordinator and Watermark A very dedicated Charity team on site, made and safety, as well as carrying out water
up of members from different departments, testing.
Champion in Quenington,
supports the planning and execution of these
United Kingdom. We discuss volunteer events. We are all aware of the In 2024, we plan to continue our work with
importance of environmental responsibility Noah's Oak and expand our work with schools
conserving the natural beauty of
and its impact on the well-being of the beyond the local area due to demand.
England’s third largest protected immediate community.
Q: What can other Xylem sites or companies
landscape – the Cotswolds
Q: What have you done at the site and what learn from your biodiversity conservation
were your highlights in 2023? experience?
Q: What makes biodiversity preservation so
important at our Quenington site and in the Melanie: We have turned our site into a Melanie: Don’t overthink it as it doesn’t need
wider community? green oasis for our employees and visitors a lot of time and effort to get started. Start
to enjoy. However, our gardening practices small and build it up as you go. There are a
Melanie: Our site is in the center of a go beyond aesthetics and support the lot of passionate people working at Xylem
beautiful little village in the Cotswolds creation of a thriving ecosystem on our site. – if you give them the opportunity to take
in Gloucestershire. It is surrounded by For example, we have installed flower beds action, they will.
picturesque footpaths leading through from recycled wooden pallets, which create
woodland and along the banks of the river habitats and food sources for wildlife such But also start on your own doorstep: recycle,
Coln. The Cotswolds cover an area of almost as birds, butterflies, and insects. The flowers upcycle, repurpose, compost, grow your own
800 square miles stretching through five we have planted are essential for plant produce, shop local – the list is endless. Every
counties, with over 3,000 footpaths and bridle reproduction as they attract pollinators such small change to the way we live and think can
paths to explore ancient woodlands and as bees and butterflies. Another important make a difference for the better.
wildflower meadows. They are home to the aspect of our sustainable garden concept
Duke of Burgundy, the large blue butterfly, is the economical use of water. To this end, Read more here.
Impact on the environment Xylem 2023 Sustainability Report 36
Product sustainability
The reductions in environmental impact that In 2019, we established four product-based 2025 Customer The Pure Water Monterey project in California, which We are on track to achieve the last remaining goal of
our products enable are what we call the Sustainability Goals that track how our products reduce our aims to create a drought-resistant and independent water enabling customers to address more than 3.5 billion cubic
customers’ environmental impacts. We are expanding that supply for irrigation needs and groundwater replenishment, meters of non-revenue water (NRW) by the end of 2025. Our
product’s “handprint,” while the summation of
effort with our new Water Stewardship commitment demonstrates the importance of partnering with customers metrology and leak detection solutions help utility customers
its impacts across all its life stages is known (p. 10-12). to achieve these goals. Xylem provided equipment for the identify infrastructure issues that result in water, energy,
advanced oxidation processes that remove contaminants. and service wastage, leading them to a more efficient and
as its “footprint.” Increasingly, customers are
Product handprint sustainable operations.
considering the balance between the two –
At the end of 2022, we achieved the first of our four The handprint of the technology was Looking beyond 2025, we plan to evolve our handprint goals
how a product’s handprint may help reduce
calculated as follows:
Customer Sustainability Goals: our solutions enabled the and calculations to reflect a wider scope of our portfolio,
their business’s impacts, but also the effects water industry to avoid over 2.8 million metric tons of CO e including relevant legacy Evoqua products.
2
emissions. In 2023, we achieved two more goals: enabling Total flow rate customer Reports in first quarter of use
of the product’s footprint across its lifecycle.
x
our customers to prevent over 7 billion cubic meters of
Our focus on disclosing both impacts Hours of operation per year
polluted water from flooding communities or entering
x
supports our customers’ needs, while also local waterways and enabling customers to treat over 13 Expected product life span
billion cubic meters of water for reuse with our treatment =
helping us deliver on our commitment to
technologies. Lifetime w ater reuse
reduce our products’ footprints.
Progress towards our 2025 Customer Sustainability Goals
Treat over 13 billion cubic meters Prevent over 7 billion cubic meters Reduce water’s CO e footprint by Reduce over 3.5 billion cubic meters
2
of water for reuse of polluted water from flooding over 2.8 million metric tons of non-revenue water
communities or entering
local waterways
2023 update: 2023 update: 2023 update: 2023 update:
+ 3.11B m3 13.36B m3 + 1.90B m3 8.44B m3 + 1.15M mt 3.95M mt + 0.80B m3 2.71B m3
Impact on the environment Xylem 2023 Sustainability Report 37
Product footprint Governance of product safety
In 2023, we developed our core capability for life cycle Our Board of Directors, primarily through delegation to its
assessment in accordance with ISO 14000 standards, which is Audit Committee, oversees product safety and reviews the
n a b i l ity considered the best tool for measuring a product’s footprint. structure of our product safety governance with management.
a i
t Xylem’s Product Safety Policy stipulates that product safety
s
u Product category rules are developed through industry should be considered at all stages of product development and
S
alignment and are used by life cycle assessment practitioners support, prioritizing the safety of our customers in the design,
r
o
to provide consistency and reliability. Although these rules manufacturing, and maintenance of our products. Our Product
f
n E are common for consumer and construction products, few Safety Management System, which consists of Product Safety
n
g of these apply to water industry products. This is a barrier Review Committees and a Product Safety Manual, provides that
v
si i r to providing one of the most sought-after disclosures of a all safety-related incidents are reviewed at multiple levels, that
e End of life o product’s footprint: an Environmental Product Declaration that incident management is tracked, and that roles, responsibilities,
Resources
D n has been validated by a third-party using product category and annual training are documented. In addition, product safety
m
rules as a review standard. dashboards are used in all business units and are reviewed
e quarterly by the Product Safety Steering Committee.
n Xylem is addressing this issue by bringing its expertise to
t
a
engage the water industry in developing product category In 2023, we further expanded our product safety process. While
l rules. At the same time, we are also developing standardized we continue to focus on product safety in manufacturing and
Life cycle P Product Sustainability Reports that are designed to disclose engineering, we have also established a foundation for product
r the most frequently requested environmental impacts. For safety in our commercial teams around the world.
o
Use assessment
d
example, many customers ask for product carbon footprints
limited to the “upstream” life stages of raw material extraction, We recorded 34 product safety inquiries for legacy Xylem 34
Processing u
c
manufacturing, and packaging. These life cycle assessments in 2023, of which 19 were only classified as inquiries and not
t could be leveraged during product design to reduce products’ as incidents. Seven were near misses, 24 were low-potential
D future environmental impacts. safety hazards that were reduced or eliminated once resolved,
e and three were moderate incidents with no personal injury
c In 2023, Xylem announced a partnership with LORENTZ, recorded. Each incident resulted in a corrective action to
l
l
o a adding solar power and solar/grid hybrid solutions to mitigate and prevent future incidents.
o r our product portfolio. This exciting innovation will yield
a
T t significant operational emissions reduction during a Product safety risk assessments
r
o
t
Packaging
Manufacturing
noi
pump’s lifetime, benefitting customers especially in water-
c s stressed areas where delivery of electricity is a concern. Product safety is considered throughout the entire product
e l Solarization significantly reduces a pump’s overall footprint, lifecycle, including installation, operation, maintenance, and
e
S
t
c u
dorP
d
o
Pe
u
rom
r
dno uen cts
- tz
st er Sa rot oi n
lc
dg
o
r
mt eh pme
r
ei in
t
smt ee ner ts
n
se
t
,c
t
hati
s
eo n
S
va
co sof
tp
p mer o
3
ad
j
oCu rac ittt
ye
s
g
ou
o
fs
r
Xt ya
y
i
1
ln e1a m:b
U
’i sl si t Gey
H
ow Gfi t h e
a
pn
n
od
d
te
o
m
nf
t
o
il ai df le
i ifi
m. eW pde
a
p
ca
r
tol s odo
nu
c
c
so
t
asn
f
ewd tu
h
yc
.e
t
r
es a df ee sty
ig
r nis ck
h
a as ns ge es ss m coe un ldts
h
f ao vr
e
n ae w
emissions. In addition, we are strengthening our product
circularity program to address customers’ interest in product Our proactive process assesses and documents product
takeback and recycling. safety risks for each new product during its development.
Unacceptable risks are mitigated by design before the
product is released for sale. In addition, we follow a reactive
Product safety
process in which all product safety incidents are analyzed
by a local product safety coordinator and, depending on the
We are committed to taking all appropriate safety measures severity, escalated to the responsible Product Safety Review
related to the use of our products and services to protect Committee to develop a risk mitigation plan.
our customers, end users, employees, the public, and the
environment.
34 Product safety data for legacy Evoqua is not available for 2023. We are planning to report combined data for both legacy
organizations once all integration processes have been completed.
38
Impact on
society
Human rights 39
Our people 40
Health and safety 51
Responsible sourcing 53
Community impact 56
Impact on society Xylem 2023 Sustainability Report 39
Human rights
We are committed to respecting human We recognize that our commitment to advancing human Based on the EcoVadis assessments, their expert analysis and
rights as set out in the United Nations rights is an ongoing effort and we continue to work to evolve the 360° Watch Findings (artificial intelligence monitoring),
our human rights program. no major violations of human rights or labor practices were
Guiding Principles on Business and Human
identified.
Supporting policies and positions:
Rights. These include the internationally
At the end of 2023, we extended the EcoVadis scorecard
recognized human rights as defined in
● Code of Conduct sharing request to legacy Evoqua suppliers active on the
the International Bill of Human Rights and ● Business Partner Code of Conduct Ecovadis platform. As we continue to integrate legacy Evoqua
suppliers into our supply chain, we plan to further expand the
the International Labour Organization’s ● Statement on Efforts to Combat
scope of legacy Evoqua’s supplier reporting to EcoVadis to
Modern Slavery
Declaration on Fundamental Principles and continuously improve supply chain transparency and mitigate
● Conflict Minerals Policy supply chain risks.
Rights at Work. We are also a signatory to
the United Nations Global Compact, the Modern Slavery
Training
CEO Water Mandate and the Women’s
As with our human rights efforts, we rely on our revised
Empowerment Principles.
Our employees are trained in human rights-related policies and Business Partner Code of Conduct and EcoVadis assessments
procedures through our Code of Conduct annual training. In to identify and prevent modern slavery risks in our supply chain.
2023, 98% of our employees completed the Code of Conduct We expect our supply partners to comply with local labor laws
Our Human Rights Statement formalizes our long-standing training and certified their compliance with its mandate. and understand international standards on modern slavery.
commitment to upholding and respecting human rights and
contains overarching principles that we incorporate into our Using the EcoVadis IQ Risk Management Tool, we monitor our
Human rights in our supply chain
policies and management systems. It reflects the fundamental suppliers for reported incidents or potential risks. The highest
standards of business conduct and human rights and helps risk suppliers identified by the tool undergo an internal corporate
us to identify and manage the human rights impacts of our In early 2024, we updated our Business Partner Code of social responsibility assessment to further mitigate the risk of
operations, mitigate risks, and promote collaborative and Conduct and took additional steps to assess the effectiveness misconduct by our supply chain partners.
transparent engagement with our stakeholders. of our suppliers’ policies, emphasizing the importance of
human rights and ethical labor practices at Xylem across our
We continue to develop due diligence processes to prevent, value chain.
mitigate and remedy adverse impacts on human rights and
the environment, following the OECD Due Diligence Guidance We review our suppliers' labor and human rights practices 98%
for Responsible Business Conduct and the United Nations annually using the EcoVadis platform. As of year-end 2023,
Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. In addition, Xylem had more than 800 suppliers with active EcoVadis
completion rate of
we continue to implement appropriate controls intended to scorecards, covering 43.4% of legacy Xylem's global spend.
Code of Conduct training
prevent, mitigate, or remediate relevant risks and prevent If a supplier is classified as "high sustainability risk" through
abuses, including in relation to the activities of external this assessment a request for an on-site audit is triggered,
stakeholders and throughout our supply chain, and monitor which is conducted in coordination with the Xylem Supplier >43%
the effectiveness of our controls and take or cooperate in Quality Team and an external auditor. We conducted the
taking remedial action where necessary. first on-site audit as part of our sustainability risk mitigation
of legacy Xylem’s global supplier
process in 2023.
base by spend had completed
an EcoVadis assessment.
© Alexis de Kerchove (Xylem)
Impact on society Xylem 2023 Sustainability Report 40
Our people
Spotlight
Our success is built on a workforce that insight into which behaviors we should These behaviors will help us improve
is driven by purpose and our shared lean into and which we should change, and employee engagement, speed, and decision
which processes support the execution of making as they become visible in our
commitment to sustainability. We foster
our business strategy. We also looked at daily actions and practices, including the
an inclusive and equitable environment behaviors and characteristics of companies successes we celebrate, the results we
that shape markets. reward, and the way we work as a team, to
where diverse colleagues feel they can be
name a few.
themselves, have opportunities to grow, Ultimately, we decided to focus on the
positive impact we can make with the Q: How will you measure the success of the
contribute in meaningful ways, and have
platform of solutions we have created High-Impact Culture?
a sense of belonging. from the combined legacy companies for
our customers, their communities, and our Rachel: While there are quantitative metrics
colleagues. For this reason, we refer to that we use to measure our progress, such
When we brought Xylem and Evoqua together in 2023, we our aspirational culture as a "High-Impact as our employee surveys, we will recognize
worked to evolve our organizational culture to enable the Culture.” The words high-impact were success by the way we operate – when
combined company to achieve our purpose – empowering intentional and align with our goal to create decision making becomes simpler and when
our customers and communities to build a more water-secure positive economic and social value and also we hear from our customers that it is easier
world – and create value for our stakeholders. underscore what we can do together and as to do business with us.
individuals.
By leveraging our diversity and a learning mindset, we drive Our High-Impact Culture will be the
innovation. By focusing on the needs of our customers and Q: What are the aspired behaviors that are cornerstone of our success and instrumental
making the trust we place in each other visible, we empower consistent with our High-Impact Culture? in creating an environment that fosters
our teams. By driving clarity and focus, we deliver on our Interview with Rachel innovation, leadership, employee
commitment to each other, our customers, and our other Darcangelo, Xylem's Vice Rachel: There are three key behaviors development, ownership, and accountability.
stakeholders. that I would like to highlight. The first is And I know our customers and colleagues
President, Global Leadership,
Inspired to Innovate, which is about gaining will let us know when we get it right.
Talent, and Culture experience to create high-impact solutions,
sharing information, and leveraging the
expertise of others inside and outside
“Our high-impact culture will
Q: What is “High-Impact Culture” Xylem to continuously learn and develop
and how did it come about? ourselves and others. The second behavior
is Empowered to Lead, which is about be the cornerstone of our
Rachel: The combination of legacy Xylem trusting others and knowing when to
and legacy Evoqua gave us the opportunity step up and lead and when to follow. It's success and instrumental in
to pause and evaluate what culture we also about actively supporting others to
wanted to create for the new company that connect and prioritize our actions with our
creating an environment that
would enable us to achieve our strategic strategy, celebrating individual and team
priorities through effective collaboration. performance and making decisions based
fosters innovation, leadership,
We looked at the cultures of both companies on diverse perspectives. And third, it's
and identified similarities and differences about being Accountable to Deliver, which
through focus groups, interviews with means meeting our commitments to our employee development,
senior leaders, and employee surveys. customers, communities, and colleagues
The resulting strengths and opportunities and helping them solve their biggest water ownership, and accountability.”
of the combined organization gave us challenges.
Impact on society Xylem 2023 Sustainability Report 41
Talent management
● In South Africa, we identified unemployed skilled talent employees and teams, and the development of a final blueprint Learning
for entry-level positions through our Advance Learnership for company-wide implementation. In 2024, we are planning to
Developing and implementing policies and programs program, which provides a clear roadmap from interview analyze the lessons learned from the two sites to implement the We have adopted a 70/20/10 approach to employee learning
that promote inclusive and diverse hiring, professional to employment, learner well-being, and development. pilot at additional locations. and development as we recognize that most learning
development opportunities, comprehensive benefits, and takes place on the job (70%), and through interactions with
fair compensation is key when aiming to attract, retain, and ● In Southeast Asia, the Student Experience and Outreach Onboarding colleagues, customers, and partners (20%).
develop talent. For that reason, we have strengthened program introduced over 100 students from various
existing programs and policies and added new programs and educational institutions to Xylem, the water industry, and Given the dynamic nature of our company and the industry, While these experiences are invaluable, they are not reflected
policies related to managing our workforce in 2023. water sustainability. providing key information to new employees in their first few in our learning management system, which offers formal
weeks is vital to accelerate their ability to contribute to our High- learning opportunities (10%). It provides employees with on-
Recruiting and hiring top talent ● In the Middle East and Turkey, we launched a program Impact Culture. demand/self-paced learning and live virtual events covering
that guides students throughout their educational journey, a range of topics including feedback, coaching, change
In 2023, we increased our global efforts to attract the next from school experiences and internships to preparing for In 2023, we established a Global Onboarding Hub to offer management, inclusive leadership, effective remote work
generation of diverse water leaders, developing several employment. a seamless onboarding experience for our new employees practices, digital literacy, and role-specific skill training. In
inclusive and equitable hiring programs targeting these and ensure they receive key information. We have also 2023, we recorded an average of 16.75 formal learning hours
future leaders: Global university student and graduate programs maintained our onboarding programs for new employees, per employee.
including our Virtual Global Orientation, which provides
Youth engagement programs In 2023, we continued our partnership with Parker Dewey, a valuable opportunities for new employees to interact with
mission-driven organization that connects great talent with senior leaders, gain insights into successful business stories
To expose young people to the water challenges we face and companies through micro-internships. Thirty-eight short- from seasoned professionals, and connect with other new 8.5%
equip them to be the next generation of water leaders, we term, professional projects were completed by paid college employees from across the organization, and our monthly
continue to support a number of youth engagement programs or graduate students supported Xylem while engaging the onboarding program. Our key areas for improvement in
voluntary turnover rate
through Xylem Ignite, Stockholm Junior Water Prize, Water next generation of water innovators and leaders. The program 2024 include enhancing the onboarding process for a
Heroes Academy, and Earth Echo. See p. 61 to learn more. attracted a highly diverse group of micro-interns, 45% of whom more personalized experience. We aim to extend a warm
self-identified as racially or ethnically diverse and 65% of welcome from the pre-onboarding stage and streamline 16.75
Local university student and graduate programs whom self-identified as female. and standardize the onboarding program based on the
experience survey feedback.
average formal learning hours
To recruit and hire students globally, we take a local approach, Other inclusive and equitable hiring programs
per employee
identifying strategies that are best suited to attract talent in Offboarding
the disciplines we need for entry-level programs. We have We also continued and implemented hiring programs focused
University Champions that support relationship building at on attracting talent of all career levels to create a more diverse, In 2023, our voluntary turnover rate was 8.5% for the combined
specific universities and directly engage with students, sharing equitable, and inclusive workforce. Here are some examples 35. company, which is below industry average.
their own experiences. Programs included:
Veteran hiring program Performance, learning and development
● In the United States, we further developed our university We continued our partnership with the Hire Military’s
recruitment strategy by participating in student learning SkillBridge Internship Program in 2023. This program offers We strive to empower our employees to reach their full
events and career fairs. University Champions spoke to transitioning military personnel the chance to gain hands- potential through continuous learning and professional
students on campus throughout the year. on experience at Xylem, equipping them with valuable skills development.
and facilitating a smooth transition into full-time roles upon
● In Sweden, we launched our partnership with Cogig's completing their service. Performance management
Female Technical Engineer program to attract women
starting their careers. The program brought us together Fair chance hiring program Our performance review system “Connect. Perform. Grow.”
with female engineering students from major technical We expanded our “fair chance” hiring practices in the United (CPG) provides a performance management framework that
universities. States to broaden our talent pool by offering employment encourages ongoing, meaningful conversations between
opportunities to people with criminal records. With our partner, managers and team members that focus on performance
Envoy, we launched projects for fair chance hiring at two major feedback, goal assessment, coaching, growth opportunities,
manufacturing sites in 2023. The projects included planning and and career development. These conversations are held
strategy development, talent recruitment, policy and practice regularly throughout the year.
updates, community partnerships, coaching and training for key
35 More programs under "Diversity, equity, and inclusion“ on p. 45-49.
Impact on society Xylem 2023 Sustainability Report 42
Developing a talent pipeline ● Twenty U.S. early career and three experienced leaders, Innovation Labs team, Innovation Champions provide subject
who were nominated by our Maji and Hispanic Origin and matter expertise and advocate for the startup's technology
A broad range of talent development programs and Latin Affinity employee network groups, participated in or solution within the organization. Open to all colleagues,
experiences support the continued professional growth and McKinsey’s Connected Leaders Academy – an external 126 employees have participated to date, with an average of
leadership development of our colleagues, advance internal leadership development program that includes customized 42 participants annually. Feedback from Xylem employees
talent mobility, and support our succession plans. These content relevant to Black, Asian, Hispanic, and Latino included, “If you want to be a part of innovative ways of
programs span all levels, businesses, and functions and leaders. With separate training tracks for early career solving water, then you want to be a part of this program. This
include entry-level talent recruitment programs, emerging and experienced leaders, the program builds skills and program not just helps in our business growth but also in our
leader development programs, people leader training, and improves our talent pipeline. In 2024 we are looking to professional growth.”
executive leadership development. expand participation in additional countries.
Externship
Development of high potentials and experienced managers ● The year-long, cohort-based Executive Development In Sweden, we took part in Introduce a Girl to Engineering
In 2023, we conducted various leadership programs aimed at Program enhanced enterprise leadership capabilities of Day, organized by Womengineers. The program is intended
emerging and experienced leaders: 19 high-potential managers while building competencies to encourage young women to pursue an education in
to lead transformation and prepare them for future engineering. Twenty girls aged 13 to 19 from nearby schools
● More than 120 legacy Xylem employees globally succession. The program offers participants the chance visited our Sundbyberg site where they were introduced to
participated in the First Time Leader Program pilot and to connect with Board members during the program’s final engineering careers in the water sector through a guided tour
more than 140 legacy Evoqua employees participated event, where they can exchange insights and authentically of one of our labs followed by two water testing assignments.
in the Intentional Leadership Program for frontline learn about Directors’ experiences.
leaders. Both programs focused on the development of Social impact leadership opportunities
foundational leadership skills. Early career development Through our volunteer program, Xylem Watermark, over
We also ran various early career development programs 500 colleagues dedicated volunteer time to leadership roles
● More than 45 high potential colleagues participated in consisting of three different rotations where participants supporting our social impact endeavors. These are invaluable
Emerging Leaders cohorts with three distinct focus areas: take on key roles related to the company’s strategy. They leadership development opportunities that also support social
Supply Chain Leadership, Innovation and Technology learn about Xylem and the functional program area, gain impact creation in our communities. Learn more on p. 57.
Leadership, and Strategy Fellowship. exposure to different areas of the business, and are given
opportunities for networking and development. Eighty Recognition
● The nine-month, cohort-based Manager to Leader program Finance, Operations, and Engineering employees from
aimed to grow the leadership skills of 20 high-potential both legacy companies participated in these programs in Celebrating the value that individuals and teams bring is vital
mid-level managers and prepare them for broader people 2023. Additionally, three employees participated in legacy to foster our High-Impact Culture. Our JobPoints Recognition
leadership roles. Evoqua’s Commercial Leadership Development program platform offers both monetary and non-monetary rewards,
and legacy Evoqua launched its first Talent Accelerator while our internal social media platform, Xylem Now, facilitates
● The 18-month Growth Talent Sponsorship program program, hiring six emerging talents for a 17-week training peer-to-peer recognition. Additionally, employees receive Spot
provides career guidance and advocacy to accelerate the cohort who were then placed in sales roles across the Bonuses and positive messaging via our Workday platform.
visibility, career growth, and overall effectiveness of high- United States. This dedication to acknowledging colleagues' contributions
performing mid-level talent. The program paired 18 high helps retain and motivate our growing workforce. As we
potentials with 18 sponsors from middle management. Xylem’s Innovation Champions Program further embed our High-Impact Culture across Xylem, we
The Xylem Innovation Champions Program, launched in strive to ensure that every employee feels appreciated for their
● The 18-month Senior Leader Sponsorship program early 2022 in collaboration with the Xylem Innovation Labs role in our success.
provides career guidance and advocacy to accelerate corporate innovation and venture team, offers employees a
careers, create a culture of growth, and sustain a robust unique professional development opportunity. Participants
and diverse pipeline of qualified talent for leadership gain exposure to new technologies and enhance skills while
positions. The program paired 15 high potentials with 15 contributing to Xylem's innovation and growth. Working
sponsors from senior leadership. alongside a chosen startup and a member of the Xylem
Impact on society Xylem 2023 Sustainability Report 43
Compensation and benefits Talkspace in the United States, where employees can talk to a In Europe, we help our employees build their financial literacy
licensed behavioral therapist through unlimited text, video and by offering them financial planning workshops and retirement
As part of our global well-being framework, we provide audio messages via web browser or mobile app. planning advice. In the future, we plan to offer financial flexibility
employees with benefits that address a broad range of their on a broader basis with similar benefits in other markets, where
needs. The framework recognizes that well-being requires In addition, 117 employees were certified as "Mental Health possible depending on the region or country.
a holistic approach that encompasses the interconnected First Aiders" in 2023. These employees completed a training
aspects of their lives – physical, mental, emotional, social, course in which they learned how to recognize and support an Flexible working arrangements
and financial. employee experiencing a mental health issue or crisis in the
workplace and direct them to supportive resources – bringing We have significantly enhanced our policies and benefits in the
While initiatives vary by country, location, and role, our our total number of certified Mental Health First Aiders to 535. United States in recent years to increase employees' ability to
competitive compensation packages and benefits go beyond manage their flexibility and paid time off. Our shift to flexible
salaries and wages to include health insurance coverage, Online self-study learning programs in the Xylem Learning work arrangements simplifies the way our employees manage
retirement plans, paid leave, wellness programs, mental well- Center and our internal mental health and wellness social their time off by giving them the flexibility to take time off when
being, flexible work schedules, stock options, remote and media group provide additional resources. Managers also they want (including vacation, sick and personal time), and for
hybrid workplaces, and more. have access to ad hoc mental health coaching when needed. however long they need.
We are reducing the stigma surrounding mental health with
Employee benefits these offerings, as well as through leadership involvement and Employees in other regions also have access to flexible work
discussions on the topic. As a part of our dedication to mental schedules and remote work options to reduce burnout and
Physical well-being
health, we offer coaching and training for people in leadership enable an inclusive culture.
We offer our U.S. employees comprehensive health benefits roles, carry out psychosocial safety audits, and host "Leaders
including medical and prescription drug, dental and vision Talk" sessions where leaders openly share their personal Parental leave
plans. Additionally, we launched a back and joint program experiences with mental health challenges. Parental leave is typically determined based on local practices
through the Hinge Health app in 2023 that provides digital and regulations at locations around the world.
exercise therapy for back, knee, hip, shoulder, and other Financial well-being
chronic pain. They now also have access to a hearing exam According to a 2023 PwC study 38, 57% of study participants In the United States, for legacy Xylem employees, we have
every 24 months, which is covered under Xylem's medical said that finances were the main cause of stress in their lives. enhanced our paid parental leave policy to support working
plans. Our medical plans provide equitable access to any Financial stress can have a negative impact not only on mental caregivers. New mothers are eligible for up to eight weeks of
covered healthcare services not available locally by covering health, sleep, self-esteem, or physical health, but also on an paid parental leave, as well as short-term disability insurance
travel and lodging expenses. employee's productivity and engagement. According to the that covers 100% of income for the first six weeks of paid leave.
study, financially stressed employees are also more likely to Fathers, other same-sex partners and new parents through
Employees in Europe have access to comprehensive healthcare be distracted and less engaged. To promote and support the adoption, surrogacy or foster care are also eligible for the same
and regular check-ups. All Emerging Markets regions now have financial well-being of Xylem employees, we introduced several paid parental leave, which can be taken within the first six months
family coverage for health insurance. regional programs in 2023. of a leave-eligible event. In 2023, about 4,400 legacy Xylem
U.S. employees were eligible for the enhanced paid parental
Mental well-being For example, in the United States, we introduced a student leave – about 1,070 women and about 3,300 men. One hundred
The World Health Organization (WHO) estimates that debt program that provides a monthly payment of $100 employees took parental leave, of which 15 were women and
depression and anxiety alone cause a loss of one trillion directly toward employees' student loans up to a lifetime 85 were men. All U.S. employees who took parental leave in
dollars in productivity for the global economy each year 36. maximum of $10,000. This contribution, which is in addition to 2023 returned to work at the end of their leave. Legacy Evoqua
Deloitte also found that employers see a 430% return on every regular loan payments, helps employees pay off their student employees are eligible for the same benefit starting in 2024.
dollar invested in staff mental health 37. loans faster. U.S. employees also have access to the optional
Alight Digital Wallet compensation tool, which allows them to
We acknowledge the importance of promoting and access up to 50% of their earned wages before payday. They
safeguarding the mental health of our colleagues in Xylem’s can view their available wages, choose how much money
long-term sustainable growth and success. We offer our they want to withdraw, and designate where they want to
36 WHO – Mental health at work employees mental health support through our Employee deposit the money. For many, this can alleviate the financial
37 Deloitte – 2022 Mental health and employers. The case for Assistance Programs, which are available in 47 countries stress of waiting for payday and give employees the ability 535
investment – pandemic and beyond around the world. These programs offer confidential to access money in case of unexpected expenses between
counseling and support services 24/7 for employees and their paydays. In addition, full-time employees in the United States
38 PwC – 2023 Employee Financial Wellness Survey (based total certified Mental Health
on an online survey of 3,638 full-time employed U.S. adults families in Europe; emotional and physical health webinars in can participate in Xylem's retirement plan and choose from First Aiders
across a variety of industries in January 2023). Emerging Markets; and access to the online therapy platform different types of life and disability insurance.
Impact on society Xylem 2023 Sustainability Report 44
Employee feedback communication
In the United States, we also provide coverage for travel costs
related to reproductive care not available in the state where an
employee resides, as well as medical coverage for IVF and other In the first and third quarter of 2023, we conducted two
fertility treatments. employee pulse surveys. These surveys gathered simplified,
action-oriented information to empower us to create positive
In Europe, we offer pregnancy loss leave to our employees in impact across the organization. With survey insights, we put
EU member states and shared parental leave in Switzerland, actions in place to increase employee engagement and foster
in addition to local practices and regulations to enable a more a High-Impact Culture in which all employees feel inspired,
inclusive work culture. In some Emerging Market regions, we empowered, and accountable to deliver the best of Xylem.
have improved our parental leave practices and are working on
more country-specific comprehensive parental leave policies to The pulse surveys were deployed to approximately 4,500
be implemented in 2024. employees and focused on employee engagement,
simplification, and efficiency. The third quarter survey included
Voluntary time off benefits
both legacy Xylem and legacy Evoqua employees and achieved
We encourage and support our employees around the world a response rate of approximately 40%. Employees responded
to volunteer in their communities on water-related projects positively, with a 57% overall favorable result.
as part of our global corporate social responsibility program
Watermark. In 2023, Xylem offered 10 hours of time off each In 2024, the global employee survey will be revamped and
year for volunteer activities, which will be increased to 20 hours deployed with a new structure and improvements to the
in 2024. In 2023, 89% of legacy Xylem employees volunteered, process to increase our effectiveness in using employee
contributing over 184,000 hours of community service. We feedback to create lasting, positive change. Upgrades include
believe this helps us create a workplace environment that expanding the survey to reach all employees (on and off the
fosters employee well-being, engagement, and a sense of manufacturing floor) for greater representation of the total
community, ultimately reducing absenteeism. population, a revised survey design and outputs for more detail
and clarity across top employee insights, an appointed senior
Compensation leader cohort for the creation and execution of actions, and
a full-circle communication plan for broader recognition of
Our compensation programs are tailored to be competitive progress due to employee feedback. Inspiring positive change
within each local market linked to our business strategy, helping is a top priority as we continue to grow and evolve as an
us attract, retain, and motivate our employees, and supporting organization.
our pay-for-performance philosophy. Our compensation
package comprises base salary and, for eligible employees,
Employee representation
performance-based incentives such as annual, sales, and long-
term incentives.
We believe that the work of labor organizations, works councils,
Internal pay equity and unions improves the lives of our employees and respect 83%
Paying employees fairly for their work reduces feelings of their legal right to join or opt out of such organizations. We raise
injustice or discrimination, as well as stress or anxiety. It also awareness among managers at all levels of the importance of
global gender pay equity
improves the overall well-being of employees, increasing job respecting the employees’ right to organize.
assessment completed
satisfaction and improving workplace culture.
As of December 31, 2023, we employed around 23,000 people
In 2023, we conducted a gender pay equity analysis across worldwide. Around 66% of our employees in Europe are 87%
all countries for a significant number of employees, as well as represented by trade unions or works councils and 11% of
a race and ethnicity pay equity analysis for the United States. our employees in the United States are covered by collective
of U.S. gender and race/ethnicity pay
Overall, there were no systemic pay inequities for gender or bargaining agreements. In some other countries, employees are
equity assessment completed
race. Where a pay equity gap existed, employees were identified, also represented by works councils.
and we began implementing plans to reduce these gaps by
2025 through our annual compensation process and ongoing
monitoring.
Impact on society Xylem 2023 Sustainability Report 45
Diversity, equity, and inclusion DEI in numbers
In the United States, 1.7 million people work in the water A key component of our DEI efforts is to increase the
sector, and most of the workforce are older white men 39. transparency of our diversity data. This will promote internal
The aging of the workforce and the challenge to attract a accountability and provide employees, potential new talent,
robust pipeline of new talent to the sector make it difficult and other external stakeholders a clear overview of the
to increase the diversity of the water workforce. At Xylem, diversity of our workforce and progress toward our goals. We
increasing diversity, equity, and inclusion in our workforce is include DEI data in our quarterly executive business reports
critical to empowering our customers to tackle global water and included female representation in leadership in our ESG
challenges. We are committed to a workplace that creates Performance Share Units (PSU) grant awarded in 2021.
a sense of belonging for all, where everyone feels inspired
Diverse 2025 representation goals to be achieved
to innovate, empowered to lead, and accountable to deliver
while feeling able to bring their authentic selves to work. through merit-based retention, promotion,
and recruitment:
Bringing together people from different backgrounds
and cultures, with different perspectives, talents, and
Achieve 29% women in leadership
experiences, generates new ideas and different ways of
seeing and solving problems. Innovation, in turn, leads to
better products and services for our customers. Diverse Achieve 21% minority representation
and inclusive teams that reflect the diversity of those in U.S. leadership
we serve also help us strengthen relationships with our
customers and communities and help us better understand Following the acquisition of Evoqua, we adjusted our
the different perspectives of stakeholders, end users, “women in leadership” goal from 35% to 29% women in
and customers. This enables us to build trust, nurture leadership positions 40 by 2025 and from 50% to 35% by
relationships, and understand and solve problems faster – 2030. Similarly, our “minority in leadership” goal now aims
across markets and cultures around the world. for 21% representation in U.S. leadership roles by 2025
compared to the previous 25%, with the target of reaching
We believe that diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) enables 25% by 2030. Challenges in achieving these goals stem
us to attract the right talent, be more innovative, and from turnover, the availability and attraction of diverse
positively impact employee and customer satisfaction, talent in the sector, and lower diversity in legacy Evoqua
which ultimately makes us more competitive. leadership. These adjustments were informed by McKinsey
research 41, which indicated that Xylem meets or exceeds
industry benchmarks for women in leadership.
39 According to the Brookings analysis of BLS Occupational Employment Statistics (2016) nearly 85 percent of the workforce are male and two-thirds white.
40 “Leadership positions” are defined by an internal salary band structure that reflects executive and critical leadership positions.
41 McKinsey Women in the Workplace 2023 report
Impact on society Xylem 2023 Sustainability Report 46
2023 DEI key figures 42 Board diversity
Employees by geographical area Percentage of women representation by management level globally Xylem and its Board of Directors terms of viewpoints, professional
believe diversity in the boardroom is experience, education and skills, as
critical to the success of the company well as race, ethnicity, gender, and
Emerging markets Americas and its ability to create long-term nationality. Our Board is committed
3,627 (15.92%) 10,405 (45.66%) value for our shareholders and other to actively seeking highly qualified
stakeholders. The Board actively women and individuals from
seeks to consider a diverse group minority groups to include in the
25.33% 25.34% 25.08% 25.22%
of candidates for membership on pool of candidates from which Board
the Board, considering diversity in nominees are selected.
Europe
8,754 (38.42%)
Leadership Middle management Non-management Total
Diversity profile of Directors 44
5.4 years
Average tenure
U.S. employees by race and ethnic minority group
African-American Asian-American Hispanic Other race / Total
Average age
60
ethnic minority
Leadership 3.61% 7.22% 6.16% 2.12% 19.11%
Middle management 5.37% 7.40% 6.76% 2.06% 21.59%
Female Directors who
Non-management 15.04% 3.50% 14.23% 3.09% 35.86% 40% 10%
Directors identify as
LGBTQIA+
U.S. employees by age 43
<30 years 30-50 years >50 years
Leadership — 1.17% 1.29%
Ethnically or Directors born
20% 40%
racially diverse outside of the
Middle management 0.34% 7.69% 5.93%
Directors United States
Non-management 12.86% 39.22% 31.51%
Total 13.20% 48.08% 38.73%
42 Please find additional employee data in the datasheet on p. 73 and the accounting principles on p. 76. 44 Tenure and age as of the date of Xylem’s 2024 Annual Meeting on May 16, 2024; gender,
ethnicity/race, global origin, and sexual orientation as identified by the Directors that stood
43 Only legacy Xylem employees in the United States. for election at that meeting.
Impact on society Xylem 2023 Sustainability Report 47
Further diversifying our workforce Programs
Sponsorship programs
Implementing appropriate policies and practices and attractive
programs, as well as providing opportunities for employees to We have set up several sponsorship and mentoring programs
develop their skills, is key to successfully creating a diverse, (see "Developing a talent pipeline" on p. 42) that bring
equitable, and inclusive work environment. together high-performing talent with experienced managers
to offer them career advice and increase their visibility. These
Policies and practices programs consider diversity and inclusion factors when
selecting participants from the applicant pool.
Corporate policies and guidelines
We have multiple policies and guidelines in place that address Reverse Mentorship program
diversity, equity, and inclusion in the workplace, such as our This six-month program pairs nominated members of an
Hiring and Staffing Policy, U.S. Disability Accommodation employee network group with members of the leadership team
Policy, Prevention of Workplace Harassment Policy, and who want to increase their engagement with underrepresented
Gender Transition Guidelines. groups to deepen their understanding of the structural and
cultural barriers and challenges they face. The mentees and
Diverse candidate slate
mentors meet monthly for a one-hour virtual meeting where
We have expanded our goal to interview a diverse slate of they can openly discuss challenges and viewpoints in a safe
candidates when recruiting to fill open people leader roles to all space. In 2023, 33 pairings were formed.
open professional positions; however, only the most qualified
applicants should be hired, with no exceptions. With this goal in McKinsey’s Connected Leaders Academy
mind, we have increased the percentage of diverse candidate Employee network groups Maji and HOLA nominated Black,
slates for open professional positions by 6% compared to Asian, and Hispanic talent to participate in McKinsey's
the previous year to 88% in 2023. Global adoption, focus on Connected Leaders Academy development program. In
increasing the diversity of our internal talent pipeline, and 2023, 23 Xylem employees participated in the Connected
strategic external talent sourcing will help increase our diverse Leaders Academy's Leadership Essentials and Management
candidate slate goal outcome going forward. Accelerator program. The Leadership Essentials program
is aimed at individuals who have just started their career
Regional DEI Councils
and want to become team and people leaders, while the
Xylem's three Regional DEI Councils serve as local volunteer Management Accelerator program is for mid-career managers
boards that advise, support, and drive the advancement of who want to take the leap into a leadership position.
region-specific practices aligned with corporate strategy to
achieve our diversity, equity, and inclusion goals. The councils Water Environment Federation’s (WEF) InFLOW program
help create strategic accountability for results, expand This program promotes diversity and inclusion in the water
outreach and oversight of diversity efforts, and promote industry by partnering with community job-readiness
communication with local leadership on progress. organizations to expose students to the variety of career
possibilities in water and identifies students enrolled
LGBTQ+ inclusive benefits
in undergraduate and graduate degree programs from
Committed to providing comprehensive coverage for all, we historically underrepresented ethnic and racial groups.
partnered with Xylem's employee network group, LGBTQ+ We have been an InFLOW Game Changer–level sponsor
and Allies Network, to enhance the visibility of our LGBTQ+ for the past five years and hosted the program’s welcome
benefits in 2023. U.S. employees now have access to an reception in 2023.
LGBTQ+ benefits and services guide that clearly outlines
our medical plans for same-sex spouses and domestic
partners, transgender-inclusive health services, and additional
services for our employees and their dependents, including,
for example, a family formation stipend, HIV treatment and
prevention, in-vitro fertilization support, adoption and foster
care assistance, and surrogacy resources.
Impact on society Xylem 2023 Sustainability Report 48
Spotlight
Q: What was that project that ignited your Q: What has your experience at Xylem
passion for water and water security? been so far?
Aria: It was a project presented by my Aria: Joining Xylem opened my eyes to the
chemical engineering professor, posing a multitude of opportunities to blend service
simple yet profound question: if we could into the work we do, through initiatives
alter one engineering catastrophe, what like Watermark and our employee network
would it be? Instantly, my mind turned to groups. I became involved with some of our
the tragedy unfolding in Flint, Michigan, at employee network groups like the National
the time – a crisis where access to clean, Society of Black Engineers and Engineers
potable water eluded not just a community, without Borders, channeling my passion not
but a community of predominantly people of only to give back to communities but also
color, right in our own backyard. to showcase the array of careers within the
water industry to underrepresented groups.
Q: How did the water crisis in Flint shape
the course of your career? My journey underscores the importance
of education, mentorship, and community
Aria: Howard University collaborated with involvement. It highlights how our skills
WEF InFLOW, the Water Environmental and passions can make a meaningful
An interview with Aria Federation’s program committed to fostering difference in a world where clean water is a
diversity in the water industry. So, I seized fundamental human right, not a privilege.
Harris, participant in Xylem’s
the opportunity and joined their StemPATH
Engineering Leadership initiative, which provided me with a pathway Read more here.
to empowerment. WEF InFLOW opened
Development Program and
doors by providing resources, connections,
Equity champion and exposure to industry leaders like Xylem
at events before and during WEFTEC.
One such event, "Journey Through Water,"
“Joining Xylem opened my eyes to the
resonated deeply with me. Listening to
Q: Can you tell us a little bit about yourself leaders in the water sector share their
and your journey that led you to the water commitment to community service through multitude of opportunities to blend
industry and Xylem? their work filled me with profound gratitude.
It was clear that I had found my tribe – service into the work we do, through
Aria: I graduated with a Bachelor of Science individuals driven not just by ambition, but
in Chemical Engineering from Howard by a shared mission to make a tangible
initiatives like Watermark and our
University in Washington, DC – one of the difference in the world.
oldest historically black universities in the
Employee Network Groups.”
United States – in 2022. I wanted to become a Through WEF InFLOW, I found a mentor
Biomedical Engineer to work on solutions for at Xylem who guided me toward the
those grappling with diseases and life-altering Engineering Leadership Development
conditions. Little did I know that a single Program, which I started in 2022. The
project during my undergraduate tenure would program focuses on developing leaders
ignite a passion for water security that would to tackle the world’s most pressing water
shape the course of my career. challenges.
Impact on society Xylem 2023 Sustainability Report 49
Capability building Diverse Hiring training for people leaders Employee network groups
In 2023, Xylem Emerging Markets introduced an innovative
Championing Change: Driving Results through
training program for people leaders, emphasizing the
Inclusive Leadership
significance of diverse hiring practices. The program
In 2023, we launched the Championing Change: Driving equips leaders with the skills to recognize the importance
Results through Inclusive Leadership workshops. They are of recruiting top talent and enhancing diversity within their
Women’s Network
designed to increase leadership teams' accountability for teams. Participants engage in learning sessions to understand
creating an inclusive workplace by developing commitments diverse hiring principles and practice strategies for attracting, Advances the professional development and impact of women at Xylem by
tailored to their teams and the needs of the business. interviewing, and hiring a more diverse range of candidates. providing a supportive network to exchange ideas, facilitate learning opportunities,
The interactive sessions covered topics such as inclusive advocate for equality of opportunity, and unlock leadership potential.
leadership and its importance or alignment with key Our employee network groups
DEI concepts at Xylem and how to implement inclusion.
Emerging Leaders Network
Participants develop action plans for implementing inclusive To promote inclusion and belonging among our colleagues,
practices in their teams, receive resources and coaching we have established a number of employee network groups. Professional network for early to mid-career professionals to develop the skills,
after the workshop and can track their progress. In 2023, we combined legacy Xylem’s employee network knowledge and professional network to be successful within Xylem and the
groups with legacy Evoqua’s Inclusion Network (EIN) to markets we operate in.
DEI awareness days/months continue to highlight our unique qualities and promote
In 2023, with the support of Xylem's employee network groups, respect for differences.
Veterans Network
we celebrated several DEI awareness days and months by
offering special virtual sessions or workshops with guest These seven groups are led by dedicated employees and each Connects employees who are veterans of any military service and family
speakers and providing additional resources. For example, group is sponsored by a member of the senior leadership members associated with the military to engage and discuss issues related to
we recognized International Women's Day, Martin Luther team. Our local chapters and our internal social media channel veterans, to network, learn, share, innovate and grow within the organization.
King Jr. Day, Black History Month, Pride Month, Hispanic offer employees the opportunity to connect, share ideas, and
Heritage Month, Veterans Day, and Disability Awareness learn from each other. Participation in these groups continues
LGBTQ+ and Allies Network
Month, which featured guest speaker Aaron Golub, the first to grow: 21% of all Xylem employees are members of one or
legally blind division one athlete to play in a game. more employee network groups. Creates a community for Xylem LGBTQ+ employees and allies, supports our
business goals by leveraging the talents of LGBTQ+ employees and establishes
Xplore DEI series In March 2023, the Maji Network was officially launched, Xylem as an employer of choice for LGBTQ+ talent.
The Xplore DEI series on our internal social media channel is a creating a safe space and communal network for Xylem’s
monthly online webinar with interactive group discussions that Black and African American employees. The network’s mission
Maji Network (evolution of people of color and allies)
raises awareness of DEI issues and provides participants with is to foster inclusion, visibility, and advancement of Black
skills for everyday inclusion. In 2023, nearly 6,000 employees employees and to champion issues of racial injustice that Fosters the inclusion, visibility and advancement of Black and African
joined the 12 session covering topics such as racial equity and impact our communities. American employees and champions issues of racial injustice that impact
inclusion, microaggressions and allyship. our communities.
XED Talk series
Hispanic Origin and Latin Affinity (HOLA) Network
The XED Talk series by Xylem Europe is a virtual series hosting 21%
TED Talk-style events where colleagues and leaders volunteer Represents all Hispanic and Latin American across the world to share
to share their most passionate stories about DEI. These talks cultural heritage, support the community and foster professional
of Xylem employees are members of
aim to inspire participants and empower them to contribute growth at Xylem.
one or more network groups
to creating a more inclusive workplace. In 2023, topics such
as the significance of diverse teams, discussions on privilege
Non-Native English Speakers and Allies Network
and allyship, and insights on DEI from the world of stand-up
comedy were featured, providing valuable lessons for building Promotes a culture where non-native English speakers are included, are
a more welcoming environment together. confident to contribute and know that their career progression will depend
on the work they do – not just the quality of their English language skills.
Impact on society Xylem 2023 Sustainability Report 50
Driving change through dialogue Encouraging dialogue Addressing discrimination and harassment
and partnerships
In March 2023, the Reservoir Center in Washington, DC, held To enable a consistent message and approach to harassment
External partnerships a Careers for Change event on environmental justice and and discrimination, we intentionally align our Harassment
equity. Keynote speaker Maura Jarvis, Program Manager Prevention Program with our Diversity and Inclusion Program.
Our external DEI partnerships help us attract new diverse for Equitable Infrastructure at the US Water Alliance, spoke The Xylem Code of Conduct supports diversity and inclusion
talent with broader experiences, alternative skillsets, and about her journey becoming Philadelphia Water Department's and the prevention of discriminatory practices by directly
new perspectives to our work. In 2023, we focused our superhero mascot, Water Woman, to inspire youth and young addressing these issues and providing guidance to our
partnerships on reaching underrepresented talent and building professionals to solve environmental justice and equity employees on how to conduct themselves as industry leaders
the next generation of talent pipeline. challenges. A group of environmental justice leaders met and ethical corporate citizens.
with participants to further contextualize what environmental
Diversity-focused partnerships to increase access to justice work looks like and how their skills and passions can In 2023, 75% of people leaders received inclusive leadership
underrepresented talent in STEM and underserved talent: be leveraged. and unconscious bias training to manage bias at work,
providing them with easy-to-adopt tips to self-check for
● National Society of Black Engineers (United States) In July 2023, the Reservoir Center presented the “Young unconscious bias in their everyday decisions and work
Leaders in Water: The Future of Water Equity” together with practices – from hiring to team dynamics and career
● GoodWill Talent Bridge (United States)
Water& and the North American Youth Parliament for Water. development.
● HireMilitary (United States) Discussions were held about how public trust impacts the
relationship with water and how art and non-traditional We also expect our suppliers to be committed to diversity
● Fair Chance Hiring (United States)
communication methods can be used to strengthen the and inclusion, as outlined in our Business Partner Code of
● Cogig (Sweden) understanding of water equity-related challenges. Conduct, which requires suppliers to consider diversity and
inclusion in their selection decisions for their own suppliers
Youth-focused partnership to engage and attract the next In September 2023, our Xylem India team created a video and subcontractors.
generation talent pipeline: showcasing DEI in everyday action in the workplace. The video
featured four talented engineering colleagues who are deaf or
● YES 4 Youth (South Africa) hard of hearing, highlighting our commitment to fostering an
environment where everyone feels involved, respected, valued, 75%
● Ignite Youth Program (Global)
and empowered to excel.
● Parker Dewey Micro Internships (United States)
of people leaders received inclusive
In January 2024, Xylem colleagues and leaders shared their
● WEF Introducing Future Leaders of Water (United States) leadership and unconcious bias training
DEI experiences in a new virtual XED Talk series, hosted by
● Stockholm Junior Water Prize (Global) Xylem Europe. Five colleagues spoke about their journeys
● City Football Group (Global) during the inaugural session, offering insights and advice
for creating a more inclusive workplace. Participants were
● Jest – Junior Enterprise (Italy)
encouraged to join future sessions to add their own stories.
● Agrotech (France) For more information, please see “Capability building” on
p. 49.
Xylem also fostered dialogue on diversity, equity, and
inclusion at a number of tradeshows, such as WEFTEC – WEF
InFLOW, Empowering Women in Industry, and the Stockholm
International Water Institute.
Impact on society Xylem 2023 Sustainability Report 51
Health and safety
We are committed to taking all appropriate and accountability. To drive continuous improvement, we Health and safety training ~19,000
measures for the safety of our employees, have monthly business reviews and apply lean manufacturing
principles that strengthen our safety culture. Health and safety training program
customers, users of our products, the safety training hours completed
public, and the environment. Continued In 2023, proactive measures such as employee training and Xylem has a robust health and safety training program that
engagement initiatives, third-party compliance audits, and delivers training in person and virtually, helping our colleagues >1,000
investment in safety programs and risk
accountability meetings with management continued to understand their responsibilities and providing them with
mitigation initiatives, leadership training, enhance our safety culture. Events like Xylem Safety Week and information to perform their jobs safely. Topics such as
safety training hours completed
Safety Awards also played an important role. These efforts are ergonomics, electrical safety, confined space entry, and driving
and communication is vital to promoting as part of the safety leadership program
supported by monthly lessons learned, EHS insights reports, safety are covered. In 2023, legacy Xylem colleagues completed
a safe work environment and a zero and supply chain management business reviews that are close to 19,000 safety training hours in areas including
intended to promote transparency, facilitate data analysis, compliance, safety leadership, and OSHA training.
harm, high-impact culture. Furthermore,
and drive the implementation of corrective actions and best
we cultivate a culture of mutual care, practices across our global networks. Safety leadership training program
encouraging empathy, support, and
We have implemented a safety leadership training program that
collaboration among colleagues to prioritize Safety performance
leverages a global leadership program and a regional workshop
their safety, health, and well-being. for EHS team members to collaborate and standardize
Legacy Xylem logged more than 2,300,000 additional work expectations, roles, and responsibilities. In 2023, legacy Xylem
hours in 2023 compared to the prior year while reducing our teams completed more than 1,000 training hours as part of the
Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) by 16% to 0.54 and Safety Leadership Program.
Operational health and safety
exceeding our internal goal of 0.57 for the calendar year.
The reduction of our TRIR has led to considerable savings in Three Xylem Safety Leaders participated in the Center for
Our environmental, health, and safety (EHS) policies and employee workers’ compensation costs in the Executive Development (CEDEP) Leadership & Safety Culture
management system set our expectations for a safe working United States over the last two years. Program, a four-day initiative to promote a positive corporate
environment for all employees, contractors, and customers culture. This program is based on three pillars – knowledge,
who enter our facilities. They describe the health and safety In 2023, legacy Evoqua’s TRIR amounted to 0.85, resulting in a skills and performance, and behavior – and focuses on
principles that guide our business planning and decision- combined company TRIR of 0.61. With the acquisition of legacy fostering a safety culture, mastering behavioral economics,
making. They also provide employees at all levels with the tools Evoqua, we will restate our five-year TRIR by merging legacy and encouraging effective leadership and stress management.
to actively contribute to our shared success. Evoqua’s data with legacy Xylem’s while maintaining our 2025 This program’s main objective is to turn new health and safety
Goal of 0.50. challenges into a powerful performance lever.
As part of our 2025 Sustainability Goals, we have set the
ambitious target of achieving a Total Recordable Incident
Rate (TRIR) of 0.50. To achieve this, we have initiated a
Key 2023 safety data
comprehensive strategy outlined in our three-year plan.
Central to our strategy is enhancing leadership capabilities to
bolster our safety culture, with a focus on tracking leadership
interventions on the shop floor and in the field. We have Combined Legacy Legacy
also modernized and simplified our EHS data management Xylem Evoqua
system for streamlined performance tracking aligned with
Total Recordable Incident Rate 0.61 0.54 0.85
our business objectives. Additionally, we emphasize regular
reporting of safety and operational sustainability measures Lost Time Injury Rate 0.33 0.33 0.34
within existing site review processes to promote transparency Fatalities 0 0 0
Impact on society Xylem 2023 Sustainability Report 52
WASH access for employees
RoSPA, the longest-running health and safety award scheme in
the United Kingdom, spotlights organizations that are leaders
Spotlight
In 2023, we continued our commitment to WASH4Work by in fostering safer, healthier workplaces. Earning a RoSPA
providing all employees with access to WASH facilities in the Award not only recognizes an organization’s accomplishments
workplace. Our facilities test drinking water quality annually but also places them within a legacy that values dedication
and provide clean and adequate sanitation facilities for all to high safety standards, individual well-being, and a
Xylem’s 2023 Safety Awards employees. Our ongoing efforts to improve our WASH program commitment to excellence. Their criteria encompass a
include standardizing our approach across all regions and comprehensive assessment of health and safety management
focusing on the areas with the highest risk of WASH issues. We systems, leadership, employee engagement, risk assessment,
encourage every colleague to feel empowered and supported to and continuous improvement initiatives. Annually, nearly 2,000
Each year, we recognize outstanding contributions Vadodara, India: In our “Small Manufacturing Site” seek help when needed. entrants from 50 countries vie to receive one of these globally
that promote and uphold high health and category, Vadodara earned recognition for the recognized awards.
safety standards, and demonstrate exemplary siter’s remarkable safety record, including being a As part of our 2025 Sustainability Goals, we are working to
leadership, innovation, and commitment to two-time recipient of the RoSPA Gold Award and provide our employees with access to safe drinking water and The organization also provides information, education, and
continuous improvement through Xylem’s CEO achieving nearly 4,500 days without a recordable sanitation at home and during natural disasters. We are building advice to individuals, communities, and organizations to
Safety Excellence Award scheme. incident. The site’s impressive 140% increase in capacity to better understand our employees’ WASH situation reduce the risk of accidents and injuries.
concern reporting highlighted the team’s proactive outside the workplace in a way that respects their privacy.
In 2023, Xylem recognized four sites with the CEO approach to safety culture.
Contractor safety management
Safety Excellence Award for their commitment
External recognition by the Royal
in fostering a culture of safety. These sites Toronto, Canada: Awarded in our “Sales and Service
demonstrated exceptional engagement in Site” category, Toronto’s achievement of over 8,900 Society for the Prevention of In addition to our own employees, contractors who are
safety and well-being, coupled with remarkable days without a recordable incident showcased the not directly employed by Xylem also work at our sites.
Accidents (RoSPA)
achievements in risk reduction and injury site’s steady commitment to safety excellence. Our Contractor Safety Management Policy outlines the
prevention: Initiatives, such as implementing mentoring required standard for contractor safety management and
training for new mechanics and conducting slip, In 2024, 40 sites were recognized with 42 awards by the Royal communicates our expectations for compliance with our high
trip, and fall workplace organization campaigns, Society for the Prevention of Accidents (RoSPA), underlining EHS standards.
Nanjing, China: Recognized in our “Large exemplify the team’s commitment to safety. our commitment and efforts to uphold high health and
Manufacturing Site” category, this site implemented safety standards in 2023: 22 Gold, 17 Silver, 1 Bronze, 1 Most In 2023, legacy Xylem’s TRIR for contractors was 0.94. We
daily one-hour Gemba sessions – a workplace In addition, we recognized 112 sites for their Improved Entry - International, and 1 Health and Safety Beyond strive to continuously reduce the risk of contractor safety
walkthrough conducted by the management team exceptional safety performance, demonstrating the Workplace. incidents and improve the safety performance of high-risk
that aims to engage employees, discuss their zero injuries, no serious near misses, and a risk contractors through a thorough selection process, health and
tasks, and identify productivity gains. The site reduction index score exceeding 95. Furthermore, safety training, clear EHS plans and safe work procedures,
also set high standards by implementing the “I 41 sites were honored for their remarkable regular audit process and performance evaluations, and two-
Am the EHS Engineer Today” initiative, fostering dedication to improvement, achieving a 50% or way feedback.
the understanding that safety is everyone’s more enhancement in safety performance, as
responsibility. measured by injury frequency. This work highlights We strive to create a safe working environment and expect the
our collective efforts to value safety, driving us same from our suppliers, as set out in our Business Partner
Herford, Germany: Awarded in our “Medium toward a sustainable future built on a foundation of Code of Conduct. Among other things, our contractors must
Manufacturing Site” category, Herford’s well-being and resilience. demonstrate compliance with all applicable health and safety
achievement of ISO 45001:2018 certification laws and regulations and take proactive measures to prevent
underscored the site’s commitment to international health and safety incidents.
safety standards. Hosting two health days for
colleagues in 2023 and earning a Gold Award from
the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents
(RoSPA) further demonstrated their dedication to
promoting well-being.
22 Gold | 17 Silver | 1 Bronze
Impact on society Xylem 2023 Sustainability Report 53
Responsible sourcing
Responsible and ethical business conduct Supplier audits and risk
>43%
includes those that we do business with management
across our supply chain. To drive a safe of legacy Xylem’s global
supplier base by spend
Supply chain risk management program
and healthy work environment, fair labor
completed EcoVadis
practices, and an increased commitment assessments
Over the past four years, we have established a comprehensive
to sustainability, we continue to expand and scalable supply chain risk management program. This
program focuses on identifying and quantifying supplier risk
and develop our partnerships with our
and establishing mitigation management approaches that 61%
more than 12,000 suppliers. We expect reduce the overall exposure from identified areas of concern.
them all to uphold the principles set out of assessed supplier
The program aims to identify potential issues early, model
improved their EcoVadis
in our Business Partner Code of Conduct
the impact and likelihood of a supply partner’s failure, analyze
score
to conduct our own business ethically potential mitigation strategies, and implement preventive risk
actions. It prioritizes analysis of vendors and geographies with
and responsibly and to create long-term
higher risk potential. Additionally, market-specific risks are
sustainable value for our customers. generally addressed in our category strategies.
Sustainability assessments of our suppliers
Business Partner Code of Conduct
We use EcoVadis and comparable sustainability
assessments to evaluate our suppliers’ performance in
Xylem’s Business Partner Code of Conduct provides existing and the areas of labor practices, human rights, environmental
new suppliers with a clear understanding of our expectations protection, ethics, and sustainable procurement. These
for business integrity, social and environmental responsibility, assessments enable us to identify both risks and
and a framework for improving their sustainability programs. It opportunities and help our suppliers track and improve their
is included in our standard procurement terms and conditions sustainability performance year over year.
and applies to all global suppliers. Additionally, we expect our
suppliers to request the same standards of their suppliers. The EcoVadis assessment platform and its risk
management tool IQ have enabled us to assess high-risk
In early 2024, we updated our Business Partner Code suppliers, industries, and regions. By the end of 2023,
of Conduct to reflect increasing regulations around 43.4% of legacy Xylem’s global supplier base by spend had
environmental protection, human rights, and labor practices completed an EcoVadis assessment and had an active
and to consolidate the legacy Xylem and Evoqua Business scorecard. We have added existing legacy Evoqua suppliers
Partner and Supplier Codes of Conducts. It now includes to the EcoVadis platform and will continue to expand our
more explicit language regarding social and environmental supplier spend coverage. We review the scorecards with
expectations and encourages our supplier partners to submit our suppliers and work together on corrective action from
suggestions through Xylem’s Integrity Line for programs that suppliers that fell below our expectations.
they believe could increase safety and efficiency and reduce
our carbon emissions, waste, or costs. At the end of 2023, 61% of reassessed suppliers had
improved their score; 21% remained unchanged. The
We continue to train our global procurement teams on average rating of our suppliers is higher than the average
the actions needed to further embed sustainability and rating of the EcoVadis network and has continued to
compliance in our procurement processes. improve since 2020.
Impact on society Xylem 2023 Sustainability Report 54
Supplier on-site audits Engaging our suppliers on
sustainability
Supplier assessment framework Quality audits
Our dedicated Supplier Quality team defines supplier quality Embedding sustainability into our
system risks. Over the past three years, they have conducted sourcing strategies
To identify, assess, manage, and mitigate potential risk to our supply over 500 on-site audits of suppliers and identified more than
chain, we follow our supplier assessment framework: 2,000 findings. Remediation in response to these findings In 2023, we further developed our category-specific sourcing
has reduced risks within our supply chain and further strategies by embedding sustainability and diversity
developed the quality capabilities of our suppliers. Actions parameters. For example, we piloted a project in our Enterprise
from the audits are tracked as part of the suppliers’ overall Procurement consolidation tool in which sustainability
Existing suppliers New Suppliers
performance. criteria were integrated into the process of requesting a quote
from suppliers. These sustainability criteria were formally
Sustainability audits included in all supplier quote templates at the beginning of
2023. We also integrated sustainability criteria into business
Existing supplier screening criteria Offline Assessment (Direct & Indirect)
We continue to see improvements from our suppliers year over and contract awarding, including a new addendum sent to
● Impact score: Unique Supplier Risk Score ● Legal, regulatory and/ or category specific year, but we also know how important it is to be able to act suppliers with new contracts.
based on a series of criteria including, but ● Site defined processes quickly, and in some cases, in-person. To support the Supplier
not limited to: single/sole source, revenue Quality team, we also work with an external partner to conduct Launching a new supplier relationship
● Supplier survey
at risk, tolerable downtime, capacity) and remediate critical audits. In 2023, we launched pilot projects management program
● Supplier financial assessment for our on-site sustainability audits that will allow for timely
● Supplier historical quality audit score:
remediation and audit completion to improve our suppliers’ In 2023, we launched our Supplier Relationship Management
Supplier performance on previously
sustainability performance and reduce environmental and social program (SRM), which incorporates sustainability into the
conducted audits by Xylem’s Supplier
risks in their operations and supply chains. regular reviews we hold with our suppliers. The program aims
Quality Engineering Team Online assessment (Direct)
to shift a performance-focused model to a value-creation
● Supplier historical quality performance: ● Supplier capability audit: Assessment model and to improve the overall supplier experience with
Supplier operational performance on of Suppliers capability to deliver parts Conflict minerals management Xylem, making us a partner of choice for our suppliers.
metrics such as Parts Per Million (PPM), consistently, on-time, and meeting
and Cost of Poor Quality (CoPQ) specifications To develop our new SRM program, we reviewed our preferred
We continue to work diligently to comply with the U.S. supplier program and defined our desired future state. Using
● Site input: Rating (1-10) based on ● Supplier quality audit: Assessment of
Securities and Exchange Commission’s (SEC) requirements benchmarking studies and practical application solutions, we
Procurement Site Team perspective of Supplier Quality Management System
regarding the purchase of products and components that may developed a new approach to supplier engagement. This has
Supplier Performance
contain conflict minerals. The objective of our annual conflict created more value for our facilities, our procurement teams,
● Category input: Rating (1-10) based on minerals review is to increase the transparency of our own and, importantly, our suppliers.
Category Team perspective of Supplier Part qualification (direct materials) sourcing, educate our supply chain on how to avoid sourcing
Performance conflict minerals, and encourage suppliers to implement their To support our focus on Accelerating Water Stewardship
● Production part approval process (PPAP:
own responsible sourcing programs. As part of our 2023 in 2024 and beyond, we will seek to enable our suppliers to
A more rigorous and formal quality
campaign, we merged legacy Evoqua’s supplier base with reduce their water intensity by identifying the largest water
assessment process to quality parts for
Prioritize and develop audit plan legacy Xylem’s to create a consistent and compliant process users in our supply chain and working with them to reduce
production
across the combined company. their water footprint through our product and service offerings.
● FA and/or PPAP submission: First Article
Execute annual audit program or PPAP submission refers to the first set of Conflict Minerals Policy Statement
samples submitted for quality inspection
As a manufacturer of heavy industrial goods, we use tin,
Remediate audit findings
tungsten, tantalum, and gold (3TG) in many of our products.
For example, we purchase seals that contain tungsten and
New supplier onboarding –
electronics that contain tin and gold. We support the aims and
Mitigate high risk suppliers all passed
objectives of the SEC’s rules and regulations related to the
supply of conflict minerals, which is detailed in our Conflict
Minerals Policy Statement.
Impact on society Xylem 2023 Sustainability Report 55
Key engagement programs
Spotlight
Supplier diversity program CDP Supply Chain program WASH4Work
We are committed to integrating supplier diversity into We continue to leverage the CDP supply chain program to We continued to emphasize the importance of WASH in our
Xylem’s strategic sourcing processes and partnering with support our suppliers’ efforts to reduce their climate and supply chain in 2023. Legacy Xylem has onboarded more than
diverse businesses across the United States. The primary water impact. As in prior years, we focused on increasing 450 suppliers to the program, increasing our global spend
objectives of our U.S. supplier diversity program are to create the number of suppliers asked to disclose and improving committed to WASH4Work by over 49%.
economic value and growth for our diverse supplier base and the accuracy of their disclosure. Calculating GHG emissions,
to create jobs in their communities, while also increasing setting reduction targets, and mitigating climate and water It is essential that all suppliers commit to basic standard
competition and fostering innovation. risks remain key priorities that we seek to drive forward within working conditions and provide basic WASH facilities to all
our supply chain. employees during working hours. Where our suppliers found Xylem’s 2023 Supplier
In 2023, we continued our support for the National Minority gaps in their own operations through WASH4Work’s self- Conference and Supplier
Supplier Development Council and other organizations that We increased the number of suppliers asked to disclose on assessment, we supported them in identifying solutions to
Sustainability Award
help companies identify new diverse suppliers. We expanded Climate through CDP by 33% in 2023 and maintained an implement remedial measures.
our Tier 2 supplier program (suppliers of our suppliers), above-average CDP disclosure rate of 70%. At the end of the
demonstrating the collaborative spirit of like-minded year, suppliers representing more than 35% of legacy Xylem’s In December 2023, Xylem hosted its first in-
organizations seeking to promote supplier diversity. global spend had completed and submitted their CDP climate person supplier conference since 2019. The
disclosures. We continue to develop our approach to climate event highlighted the performance of our
In 2023, 10.2% of legacy Xylem’s U.S. spend was with diverse disclosure of our supply chain and are taking steps to move suppliers, and we awarded ABB the Xylem
Volunteering events
suppliers. Legacy Xylem and legacy Evoqua’s combined from disclosure to impact. Supplier Sustainability Award during the
with suppliers
spend with diverse suppliers was 8.3% in 2023. We are opening ceremony.
currently incorporating legacy Evoqua’s supplier base into our In 2023, we openly communicated to our suppliers why
program. they were selected to disclose on water through CDP In connection with this conference, we
alongside climate and saw a 5% increase in the response We have found that volunteering activities with our suppliers, hosted a Watermark event where attendees
rate of suppliers asked to disclose on water and a consistent organized through Xylem’s Watermark program, are an assembled over 400 hygiene kits donated
disclosure rate of 50% compared to the previous year. To effective tool for promoting water education and awareness through Clean the World, an organization
>10% improve our supplier selection in 2024 and focus on areas of global water challenges. In addition, dialogue with suppliers that addresses global health issues by
that we believe have the greatest potential for impact, we around the WASH4Work pledge has shown that our suppliers using discarded hotel hygiene products.
have developed an internal impact model that utilizes CDP’s see the value of community engagement through programs Each kit contained several toiletries and
of legacy Xylem's U.S. supplier base
water-intensive industries, water scarcity data provided by like Watermark. In 2023, we organized 65 Watermark events a handwritten note from the person who
by spend is diverse
WRI Aqueduct, and other proprietary inputs to create a “Water with suppliers to deepen our partnerships and make a packed the kit.
Impact Score.” meaningful impact in their local communities.
>35%
of legacy Xylem's global supplier base by spend
had completed and submitted their CDP climate
disclosures
>49%
of legacy Xylems global supplier base by spend
committed to WASH4Work
Impact on society Xylem 2023 Sustainability Report 56
North America Europe Finland Luxembourg Spain
Community impact Canada Austria France Netherlands Sweden
United States of America Belarus Germany Norway Switzerland
Belgium Hungary Poland Ukraine
Cyprus Ireland Portugal United Kingdom
Czechia Italy Romania
Denmark Latvia Slovakia
Through our global corporate social
responsibility program, Xylem
Watermark, we work with non-profit
partners, to provide education and
equitable access to clean water and
sanitation to support healthy living
and build resilient communities.
Asia
We encourage our employees,
Afghanistan
customers, supply chain partners
Bangladesh
and other business partners to Cambodia
volunteer their time and donate China
Hong Kong
money to support projects that
India
advance our mission. Indonesia
Japan
Korea
Malaysia
In 2023, legacy Xylem employees in 56 countries
Myanmar
volunteered more than 184,000 hours, a record
Latin America Pakistan
89% participation rate, with 2,000 employees
volunteering at least 1% of their time (20 hours
Argentina Philippines
Brazil Singapore
or more). Colleagues participated in skills-based
Chile Taiwan
volunteering initiatives, designed and implemented
Colombia Thailand
WASH solutions for underserved communities, and
Dominican Republic Vietnam
built capacity through training and mentoring.
Ecuador Africa Middle East
T
W
peh
A
ois
S
p
Hy lee sa wor,
i
l
tw
u
hte
i wo
r
n
ae tsa
e
c
a
rh
n
ee
d
dd
um
3 c.
o
a8
r
t
e
im
o
t
ni hl l
a
aio
n
nn
d3
p
.
a3e
w
o
m
ap ril ele
l ni
ow
en
si t sh
E
H
H
Ml
a
o
eS
i
n
xta
i
d
i
cl uv
o
a
r
ad so r
A
C
C
Egl
e
ôg
yn
te
e
ptr
r
ti
da
a
'l
I
vA
o
f r
i
ri ec a n R epublic
A
I Ls
er rm
ba
aee nln oia
n
Australia and New Zealand
i Wni et i ea nti gv ae gs ef do r
w
m ito hr e
m
s ou res t ta hi an na b 1l 0e
,
0w 0a 0te sr
t
u us de e.
n ts
P Ue ruru
g u ay
E Gt hh aio np ai a
S Tua ru kd iyi eA r ab ia
Australia
worldwide through our youth programs. Together Kenya United Arab Emirates
New Zealand
with our global non-profit partners, we provided Libya Yemen
humanitarian aid in response to 30 disasters, Madagascar Quatar
including the pro-bono provision of emergency Employee volunteering Malawi
water treatment and dewatering solutions in Disaster response Morocco
response to crises in Morocco, Chile, China, Nigeria
WASH access
Turkey, the Philippines, and Libya.
Education
Somalia
Youth engagement
South Africa
South Sudan
Impact on society Xylem 2023 Sustainability Report 57
Xylem Watermark
events were integrated into the Watermark program. Legacy
Evoqua employees are joining the MyWatermark volunteer
Our impact continues to grow as our employees and partners platform, where they can now find information on upcoming
volunteer, using their passion, unique expertise, and diverse volunteering activities, how to have their eligible donations
skills to support our global network of non-profit partners. matched, and how to record their volunteering hours.
The continued growth of our employee and stakeholder
engagement program is attributed to: Engaging our value chain
● Our network of more than 400 passionate employees We invite our channel partners, suppliers, and customers
serving as Watermark Champions, Leads, and to support our various Watermark initiatives, as we seek
Ambassadors provides in-person virtual, individual, and to engage 100,000 external stakeholders by 2025. This
skills-based volunteer opportunities for fellow employees collaboration expands our reach while strengthening our
and partners around the world. Meet our Watermark relationships with key stakeholders as we find ways to
Champion and volunteer Carolina Casserly and read complement each other with our expertise and resources.
about how she found the missing piece in her career by
giving back.
2023 highlights:
● Our four signature events throughout the year, where
employees participate in thematic focus areas through
volunteer activities and financial contributions. For ● We organized 65 Watermark events with suppliers. For
example, during our 2023 November Month of Action, example, together with our supply chain partner FLEX,
we presented the third edition of our AQUATON for the employees made improvements to a kindergarten
Water of Latin America, where over 1,900 people from 50 playground in Hungary by laying a grass carpet and
countries raised money by tracking the kilometers they rubber flooring, painting the playground, and planting
ran, walked, or biked. Watermark then donated $1 for flowers. We also collected donations for an AquaBlock
each kilometer up to $100,000, which was donated to 10 water filtration system and built hygiene kits during our
projects run by local non-profit organizations that provide first in-person supplier conference since 2019 (see p. 55).
access to safe water in seven countries.
● In April, we held our first Watermark Channel Partner
● Our skills-based volunteer efforts, which allow employees Week in North America, where we invited our channel
from around the world to apply their expertise in WASH partners to join us in volunteering. 580 people from 40
projects in under-resourced communities. For example, in channel partners volunteered by cleaning waterways,
2023 Xylem employees contributed their skills to Engineers assembling hygiene kits, and helping to enhance map
Without Borders projects in Malawi, Uganda, and the data for humanitarian response efforts.
United States that benefitted 61,400 people with improved
water access, and built the capacity of the local community ● In the United States, our Channel partners joined us in our
through training and knowledge transfer. efforts to provide clean water to communities, homes,
and schools through the Hometown H20 program with
● Our Community Grants and Matching program, whch the Chris Long Foundation and Water Well Trust.
encourages employees and external partners to engage
with local non-profit organizations for projects that are ● In Europe, our customers who participate in the
important to them. For example, colleagues in Charlotte, Waterdrop program earn points by contributing to
North Carolina, supported the 2023 Catawba Riversweep, volunteer projects and are able to translate those
a mega plogging event organized by Catawba Riverkeeper, points into water access projects around the world.
removing 47,000 pounds of trash from the Catawba- In 2023, a team of 30 Xylem customers, partners, and
Wateree River Basin. employees travelled to Cambodia to build AquaTowers
in rural villages in Siem Reap province with Planet
In 2023, Watermark gained nearly 5,000 new volunteers through Water Foundation. Since 2015, 80 Xylem Europe
the combination with Evoqua. We have started onboarding customers have participated in this program, building 25
Evoqua's existing volunteer network, and existing programs and AquaTowers, each of which serve 1,800 people daily.
Impact on society Xylem 2023 Sustainability Report 58
Spotlight “Accepting the position of Watermark
Integration Ambassador felt like a natural
fit for me. It enables me to leverage my
Q: Kayleigh, what does it mean to be a We are all united by the shared objective
Watermark Ambassador, and what led you of achieving widespread engagement,
to take on this role? irrespective of our organizational sales background while pursuing my
backgrounds.
Kayleigh: From the outset, Watermark passion for community impact.”
captivated my interest with its well- Q: How do you motivate legacy Evoqua
structured program that encourages colleagues to participate in Watermark?
everyone to get involved. Accepting
the position of Watermark Integration Kayleigh: Many of our legacy Evoqua
Ambassador felt like a natural fit for locations and employees were already
me. It enables me to leverage my sales involved in similar activities prior to the
background while pursuing my passion integration. For them, it's about sustaining
for community impact. I saw it as an that momentum by providing the necessary
opportunity to inspire my colleagues to join resources and guidance to effectively
me in making a meaningful difference locally participate in Watermark. We're also
and beyond. exploring avenues for remote employees
to engage through virtual events, ensuring
My role entails reaching out to all legacy inclusivity across various geographic
Evoqua locations, introducing them to locations.
An interview with Kayleigh Watermark, and encouraging their active
Moran, who has been a Sales involvement. Supported by a team of It is essential to ignite enthusiasm
dedicated Watermark Champions, we are among our legacy Evoqua colleagues for
Process Specialist within
already seeing significant strides in hosting Watermark, not only to meet our 2025
legacy Evoqua since 2016 events, driving engagement, and spreading Community Sustainability Goals but also
awareness to broader audiences. to extend our impact to even broader
and now works in Xylem’s
communities. Additionally, integrating
Municipal Services division, has Q: How does the role of a Watermark Evoqua colleagues into the Watermark
Ambassador differ from that of program fosters a sense of unity within
recently taken on the volunteer
Watermark Champions? Xylem, emphasizing the importance of
leadership role of Watermark building relationships in an engaging and
Kayleigh: Watermark Champions are enjoyable manner.
Integration Ambassador.
Xylem volunteers who play a pivotal role in
organizing activities and events at a local
Kayleigh joins a team of four
level with non-profit organizations and
other Watermark Ambassadors, schools. They're the driving force behind
initiatives such as youth engagement and
each of whom are responsible
water education, fostering connections with
for a geographic region or colleagues, vendors, and stakeholders while
representing Xylem out in the community.
business segment. In her role,
As the Watermark Integration Ambassador,
Kayleigh is responsible for I support and guide our champions, and
view myself as a bridge to connect our
integrating colleagues from the
legacy Evoqua colleagues with their local
legacy Evoqua business. Champions and the broader global program.
Impact on society Xylem 2023 Sustainability Report 59
Spotlight
WASH access 2023 highlights: Local Xylem volunteers actively supported the project
through community-based activities, including
The world is facing unprecedented water scarcity crises, handwashing demonstrations in schools and tree
affecting approximately 1.42 billion people, including 450 million ● In collaboration with the non-profit organization Mercy planting campaigns to raise awareness about the
children living in areas with high water vulnerability 45. People Corps, we initiated a project at Al Fao District Hospital importance of water resource management and
in these areas often do not have access to safe and affordable and Renal Center in Sudan to rehabilitate and construct environmental protection.
drinking water services, a challenge exacerbated by the impact WASH facilities. In Sudan, ongoing conflict, floods,
of climate change, such as droughts, floods, and rising sea droughts, and displacement have led to 15 million
levels. While these issues can be alleviated with improved people in need of WASH assistance and placed a 3.8M
infrastructure, many communities are currently unable to tremendous strain on healthcare providers.
withstand the effects of climate change on water services.
people reached with
Addressing these challenges requires collaborative efforts to This intervention will impact more than 330,000
WASH solutions
bolster infrastructure resilience and strive for equitable access patients and staff annually and will especially benefit
to reliable water services for all. kidney dialysis patients who rely on safe water for
their treatment at the Renal Center. This project was WASH access in the United States
Access to safe water and sanitation improves health particularly significant as it was identified by Xylem
outcomes and enhances opportunities for education and employees with family ties to Sudan, allowing us to While the need for improved water and sanitation services
economic advancement, ultimately breaking the cycle of make a positive impact in communities where our is most acute in developing regions of the world, it extends
poverty. Xylem Watermark and our partners prioritize climate- employees have personal connections. beyond these localities. For instance, it is estimated that in
resilience initiatives aimed at providing WASH access, thereby the United States alone, 2.2 million people lack access to safe
mitigating related impacts of climate change. ● In collaboration with our non-profit partner Americares drinking water and sanitation 46. In response, our Reservoir
and the local organization Aqueducks, we delivered Center and partnerships in the U.S. have focused on investing
clean water from Kramatorsk to several remote in platforms to address water infrastructure challenges and
villages in Donetsk Oblast, Ukraine, including Siversk enhance services in under-resourced communities.
and Toretsk, which have been severely affected by Inspired to innovate –
the Russian invasion. Subsequently, our efforts were Our efforts include participation in the U.S. WASH Our people creating impact
extended to encompass other vulnerable communities collective, or Vessel Collective, and endorsing its principles,
in Dnipropetrovsk and Zaporizhia Oblasts. collaborating with organizations that assist under-resourced
communities in accessing funding allocated through federal In 2023, Dr. Lindsay Birt, Client Solutions
While our primary objective was to facilitate access infrastructure investments, and working with policymakers Manager, was selected to participate in
to safe drinking water for all those in need, particular in Washington D.C. to advocate for water infrastructure the Aspen Institute First Movers Fellows
emphasis was placed on supporting elderly individuals investments and policy reforms. program. The program tasks participants
and people with limited mobility, who comprised the with applying innovative solutions to complex
majority of citizens left behind following the invasion business challenges that also hold potential
and subsequent evacuation of these frontline settlements. 2023 highlight: for creating social value.
● Also in collaboration with our partner Americares, we Leveraging her expertise in Xylem’s digital
expanded a program targeting flood-prone areas in ● We published our Solving Water in Rural America report, solutions, Lindsay focused on addressing
low-lying municipalities of Luzon, the main island of the highlighting the increasing challenges rural communities equity challenges in water and sanitation
Philippines. This initiative, developed over the past four in the United States face due to limited water access and services in the United States. Combining
years, seeks to enhance access to water and mitigates poor water quality. It presents the full scope of the rural her knowledge with a commitment to
the risk of waterborne diseases. This most recent effort water crisis, outlining the contributing regional, regulatory, social equity, Lindsay designed models for
involved rehabilitating or reconstructing community and environmental factors that have advanced these how Xylem can appropriately apply digital
water supply systems, building the capacity of local water challenges, as well as the tangible steps individuals, solutions to underserved rural and small
authorities and community leaders, and bolstering government bodies, and organizations can take to utilities across the United States. These
emergency response preparedness by pre-positioning address this crisis. models seek to provide these utilities with
critical WASH items like water containers and valuable data and solutions to enhance their
disinfection powder. 45 UNICEF – Water security for all: Proposal for action service delivery network.
46 DIG DEEP: Closing the water access gap in the United States –
A national action plan
Impact on society Xylem 2023 Sustainability Report 60
Water awareness and education
addressing water challenges in underserved communities,
these sessions helped amplify the reach of vital water
For any water solution to be effectively implemented and education. Featuring players from both the men’s and
sustained, it is essential that the community values clean, safe women’s teams, six video tutorials explained the delivery of
water, takes ownership of the project, and receives adequate the sessions to young people around the world.
training to utilize and maintain the solution. Through working
with our partners, we mobilize communities to take action and ● We joined forces with Georgia Aquarium, North America’s
empower people to adopt responsible water, sanitation, and largest aquarium located in Atlanta, creating the Clean
hygiene practices. Water Challenge game, which launched in fall 2023. This
interactive electronic game, situated within the aquarium’s
In 2023, we reached 3.3 million people with targeted water Ocean Voyager exhibit allows visitors to virtually rescue
education initiatives. Our progress toward our 2025 water marine life by mastering filtration techniques and other
education and awareness goals is driven by several key water treatments. Through the engaging experience,
initiatives: visitors learn how to foster a pristine and thriving ocean
environment.
● Investing continually in long-term partnerships with global
organizations such as UNICEF.
● Encouraging our employees to volunteer as educators and
facilitating opportunities for them to connect with students
of all ages.
● Leveraging our long-term partnership with Manchester City
Football Club and their influential sportsmen and women,
to spread important water-related messages to diverse
audiences worldwide.
Our efforts to educate, inspire, and empower individuals
underscore our unwavering commitment to address global
water challenges comprehensively. Together, the global
community can make a significant impact in securing a
sustainable water future for all.
2023 highlights:
● We completed our third year of partnership with UNICEF
India, reaching a total of 3.3 million children in India's
most vulnerable communities with WASH education and
access initiatives, with a focus on strengthening WASH
protocols in schools and preschools over three years.
● In collaboration with our partner Manchester City Football
Club, we introduced football and safe water training
modules, which blend coaching sessions with crucial
messages on WASH. Developed in conjunction with
Young Leaders from a joint program with the City Football
Foundation, across a global network of 10 projects
Impact on society Xylem 2023 Sustainability Report 61
Youth engagement
● In collaboration with Northumbrian Water, we sponsored
and coordinated a hackathon focused on mapping carbon
To empower the next generation to address our critical emissions from water utility suppliers to help them
water challenges, providing them with the knowledge, achieve their net-zero emission targets by 2050. This
tools, and platforms necessary to develop and initiative attracted over 2,500 participants from 700 global
implement innovative solutions is essential. Through organizations to join forces with local schoolchildren. The
our comprehensive youth-focused programs, we foster winning team, Phloem, developed a sample dashboard
the growth of young talent through mentorship, skills to measure supplier excellence and incentivize carbon
development, and opportunities for innovation, support accounting.
youth-led water initiatives within communities, and elevate
youth representation in leadership roles. Supporting youth-led water initiatives
In 2023, we engaged over 10,000 students in our youth ● We partnered with Manchester City Football Club’s
programming. Foundation program for the 2023 Water Heroes Academy.
This initiative empowers Young Leaders to address water
Fostering youth talent and innovation challenges in their communities, leveraging the influence of
football to provide education on WASH. Five water projects
Our global youth innovation program, Xylem Ignite, provides led by Young Leaders in various cities participated, with
students age 13 and up with events, ongoing programs, and Nairobi being named the winning project for 2023. Since its
mentorship to help them develop their skills and empower launch in 2021, the Water Heroes Academy has engaged
them to take action to solve water in their community. Our more than 300 Young Leaders and delivered vital water and
programming seeks to give students the awareness and football-related education to more than 15,000 young people
experience to enter the water workforce in the future. in fifteen cities.
In 2023, innovation-focused youth programming included two ● In collaboration with EarthEcho International, we engaged
six-month Student Incubator Program cohorts and 10 regional young community scientists aged 14 to 22 in water
hackathons. Additionally: monitoring as part of EarthEcho’s Water Challenge. Over
30,000 community scientists contributed vital data to a
● The Xylem Global Student Innovation Challenge attracted global water monitoring database, learning about watershed
over 1,000 students from 78 countries to analyze the water management and community impact. 47
impact of green hydrogen, move from awareness to action
on water issues, prevent waterway pollution using data ● We also elevated youth representation in leadership
science, and consider the water-energy-emissions nexus roles through programs such as the Water Environment
in buildings. Winners received a share of a $20,000 prize Federation’s InFLOW program, mentorship and sponsorship
and entered Xylem’s Ignite Innovation Incubator program, programs, external partnerships with organizations like
supporting them in scaling their solutions. Read more about the National Society of Black Engineers, and our employee
the challenge and the 2023 winners here. network groups such as the Emerging Leaders Network.
Read more about our efforts in Our people section of this
● As a founding sponsor, we supported the Stockholm Junior report starting on p. 40.
Water Prize, the leading water innovation competition for
students aged 15 to 20. In 2023, Naomi Park from the United
States was awarded for her research on removing carbon >10,000
dioxide and oil products from the ocean. The award was
presented by Her Royal Highness Crown Princess Victoria of
students engaged in youth programming
Sweden during World Water Week in Stockholm.
47 EarthEcho’s global water monitoring data base
Impact on society Xylem 2023 Sustainability Report 62
Humanitarian disaster response
● Funding preparedness and resilience efforts in
collaboration with non-profit partners like Mercy Corps.
Access to safe WASH resources in the aftermath of a disaster
saves lives, as does technology that safely transports water ● Establishing standardized response protocols with support
to make affected communities accessible to humanitarian from volunteer leaders in regions where we operate.
workers. It is also important that resources are directed at
making vulnerable communities more resilient in the long term
to reduce the risk of future disasters. 2023 highlights:
We are committed to mitigating the profound social and
economic impacts that natural disasters have on communities ● In the aftermath of the magnitude 6.8 earthquake that
and providing sustainable relief to those most vulnerable. With struck the El-Haouz region in Morocco in September 2023,
a global network of experienced employees and partners, our global disaster response team collaborated with Planet
we use our distinctive expertise and resources to respond Water Foundation and local non-profit organizations,
quickly to communities in peril, often in regions where our own donors, authorities, and water boards to commission six
employees live and work. AquaBlock emergency water filtration systems, which
produced clean water for up to 60,000 people in relocation
In 2023 alone, we provided humanitarian aid in 30 disaster- camps and damaged communities.
stricken areas across 26 countries, while mobilizing disaster
preparedness initiatives among our employees, partners, and ● When Chile experienced the heaviest rainfall recorded in
in the communities we serve. the last 30 years, causing deadly floods in the summer
of 2023, we donated an AquaBlock and supported the
Our humanitarian aid efforts included: local community with set-up and training on its use and
maintenance.
● Deploying in-kind technology, such as pumping and
treatment solutions that treat contaminated water. ● In collaboration with our non-profit partner Mercy Corps,
we provided access to clean water and sanitation as well
● Mobilizing community-led volunteer initiatives involving as WASH education to more than 5,300 people in the
our employees and partners, including the collection aftermath of cyclone Mocha in Myanmar throughout the
and donation of critical supplies, active participation in summer of 2023.
rebuilding effort, and more.
Read more about our humanitarian disaster response
● Extending support through grants and matching fundraisers efforts here.
for NGO partners engaged in response efforts, such as the
distribution of supplies and infrastructure repairs.
Our focus on disaster preparedness and
mitigation included: 30
● Empowering our employees with essential knowledge
disaster areas provided with
and resources through webinars and interactive activities
humanitarian aid
aimed at assembling disaster preparedness kits.
● Supporting global virtual initiatives, such as MapSwipe,
to map remote, disaster-prone areas, facilitating efficient
humanitarian aid delivery.
Impact on society Xylem 2023 Sustainability Report 63
Spotlight
Xylem Watermark's rapid Recognizing that the lack of access
response brings clean water to to clean water quickly escalates into a
public health crisis, our next imperative
Türkiye's earthquake-affected
was to leverage our water expertise.
communities Drawing upon partnerships with non-profit
organizations like Planet Water Foundation,
local emergency response agencies, and
In 2023, approximately 185 million other corporate partners who sponsored
individuals were impacted by natural AquaBlocks, we were able to orchestrate the
disasters that wreaked havoc on deployment of AquaBlock water filtration
communities worldwide. In the wake of such systems to address acute shortages of safe
crises, the rapid restoration of clean water is drinking water. The 16 AquaBlocks that were
paramount for safeguarding public health. deployed provided a lifeline to over 160,000
individuals in need.
Xylem Watermark’s disaster response
partnerships have played a pivotal role in However, our commitment goes beyond the
delivering life-changing clean water and initial emergency phase as we continue to
sanitation to countless people. Over the aid Turkey’s long-term reconstruction and
past four years, our humanitarian aid efforts recovery efforts by supporting damaged
extended to 92 areas, including Southeast infrastructure rehabilitation and bolstering
Turkey, where our local team and partners water supply systems with our suite of
sprang into action following the devastating solutions.
7.8 magnitude earthquake in February 2023.
The earthquake destroyed thousands of
homes and businesses in an area the size
of England, killing over 50,000 people. The
vast geographic area, coupled with sub- 16
zero temperatures, presented significant
challenges to the aid efforts.
Aquablocks
Despite our office and manufacturing site
being located 1,000 kilometers away from >160,000
the earthquake zone, we were relieved
to confirm the safety of all our local
people in need reached
employees. They swiftly mobilized aid
efforts on day one, dispatching essential
items typically destined for local schools
and children, such as clothing, to the
earthquake-affected regions with the help of
Türkiye Red Crescent.
64
Responsible
business
conduct
Ethics and compliance 65
Cybersecurity 67
Intellectual property 68
Political engagement 69
Responsible business conduct Xylem 2023 Sustainability Report 65
Ethics and compliance
Xylem’s global ethics and compliance To continuously enhance our ethics and compliance conflicts of interest, competing fairly, maintaining zero U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010
program helps us promote and uphold program, , our team regularly reviews current regulations as tolerance for bribery, showing workplace respect, and staying and other global anti-corruption laws. In 2023, no material
well as data from the Xylem Integrity Line, our due diligence safe and healthy. incidents of corruption were identified.
our values, comply with the law, and
platform, employee feedback and the results of audits and
conduct business with integrity. It is risk assessments. Company policies are regularly reviewed, All employees, directors and officers are responsible for We have adopted an anti-corruption due diligence framework
updated, and communicated, and ethics and compliance- complying with our Code of Conduct, and we expect our to identify higher risk third parties. As part of our screening
based on best practices and is designed
related training is conducted annually, with many of our business partners to adhere to the same high standards. If process, third parties meeting the framework must confirm
to prevent, detect, and respond to training modules requiring colleagues to certify that they will local laws and regulations are more stringent than our Code alignment with our Code of Conduct and agree to comply with
comply with our policies. of Conduct, then local laws must be followed. all applicable anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws. Higher risk
misconduct and maintain Xylem’s
third parties must complete online anti-corruption training via
reputation as a trusted and respected Our Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer (CECO) has overall Employees are required to complete Code of Conduct our due diligence platform. Our due diligence review process is
oversight responsibility for our global ethics and compliance training upon joining Xylem and annually thereafter. Training repeated at regular intervals based on a risk ranking algorithm.
leader in the water industry.
program and is responsible for meeting all necessary is conducted both online and with in-person instructors
legal and regulatory requirements. The CECO updates the and alternates between comprehensive and refresher We conduct training for our employees on our anti-corruption
relevant committees of our Board of Directors at least once training focused on critical topics. Employees are required expectations at least annually and regularly communicate
We do not tolerate workplace a year to discuss our program and meets with the Ethics to confirm that they understand and will adhere to the Code policy and process expectations. As in previous years,
misconduct or any form of bribery or and Compliance Review Boards (ECRBs) at corporate and and our policies. Production employees receive in-person in-person anti-corruption compliance training was also
regional level at least quarterly. Together with the four ECRBs training at least once every two years and receive regular conducted for our key commercial partners in 2023.
corruption wherever we do business
(headquarters and three regional boards for the Americas, communication on following our Code, our policies, and the
around the world, and we expect our Emerging Markets and Europe), the CECO oversees and importance of reporting misconduct.
promotes the program and sets the tone for ethics and Antitrust
business partners to model our ethical
compliance at Xylem. The ECRBs are comprised of cross-
Workplace harassment and
business practices. functional leaders and others who assist the CECO in Xylem’s antitrust program fosters business practices that
managing the program. violence prevention comply with applicable antitrust and competition laws and
regulations by seeking to prevent, manage, and mitigate
The approximately 100 colleagues in our global Integrity Xylem’s workplace harassment and violence prevention antitrust and competition law risks. Our policy, guidance and
Ambassador Network serve as direct liaisons to support program is designed to identify, prevent, and mitigate regular training and communication are intended to promote
the company’s ethics and compliance program. They are potential harassment- and violence-related problems in the fair competition and protect against unfair and/or illegal
trained to confidentially receive questions and reports from workplace. We regularly train and educate employees on restraint on trade.
employees on ethics and compliance matters and serve as the expectations and actions they must take to maintain a
local, trusted resources. workplace free of harassment and violence, where everyone
feels safe and is treated with dignity, decency, and respect. Conflict of interest
Our employees are trained to identify warning signs of
Code of Conduct
potential harassment and violence and escalate concerns to Our Conflict of Interest Policy and Guide apply to all of
the Ethics and Compliance Team. our directors, officers and employees. They help identify
Our Code of Conduct unites us as a company governed by potential conflicts between personal interests and Xylem’s
the same ethical principles. These principles guide us to interests that could lead to ethical and legal challenges and
Anti-corruption
make decisions that align with our core values, helps us jeopardize Xylem’s reputation and integrity. We regularly train
create an inclusive, equitable workplace, demonstrate our and communicate how to recognize and effectively address
commitment to sustainability and reinforce our trusted Bribery and corruption risks are assessed at least annually potential conflicts of interest, mitigate the risks that may arise
reputation and sense of purpose. Our Code of Conduct by our Ethics and Compliance team. Such risks are closely and protect directors, management, employees, and Xylem.
provides guidance to our employees and other stakeholders monitored, and we have processes, policies, and training
on when to speak up and outlines expected business in place to mitigate them. Our Internal Audit function
conduct such as acting with integrity, abiding by the laws regularly audits facilities based on assessed risk, to maintain
where we do business, maintaining data privacy, avoiding compliance with our policies and applicable laws, such as the
Responsible business conduct Xylem 2023 Sustainability Report 66
Training Reporting mechanisms 2023 Xylem integrity line – issue types received
Xylem regularly communicates and trains on ethics and Xylem’s employees are encouraged and expected to speak up
compliance topics as we seek to maintain the highest level of if they have questions or concerns about our Code of Conduct,
integrity. Such training materials are regularly reviewed and our policies, and applicable laws, how they apply or whether
updated based on internal data such as reports to the Xylem they are followed. Employee concerns are taken seriously,
Integrity Line, ethics and compliance trends, company and and we are committed to responding to every report. We 56%
Employee relations
industry-wide developments and relevant regulations. proactively communicate the importance of raising concerns
through our website, intranet, printed materials, online and
Training addresses topics such as our Code of Conduct, instructor-led training and regular communications throughout
raising concerns, preventing harassment, respect in the the year, including employee town halls. 14%
workplace, anti-corruption and due diligence, antitrust, Environmental / health and safety
attorney-client privilege, substance abuse prevention, data Employees and other stakeholders can raise
privacy and cybersecurity. With our global training initiatives concerns in several ways:
and targeted training for specific functions, we regularly
achieve a completion rate of over 95% for our training ● Xylem Integrity Line: This 24-hour confidential reporting
modules. In 2023, we achieved 98% completion48 of our portal is available to all employees, suppliers, and
online employee ethics and compliance training, which customers. Support is provided in all of Xylem’s key
In 2023, we received
includes several modules addressing topics such as our languages. Reports can be made through the website or by 10%
and investigated
Code of Conduct, reporting concerns, avoiding conflicts of phone and can be made anonymously through the same Business integrity
interest, complying with our anti-corruption policies and mechanisms. 282 reports.
procedures, antitrust compliance, harassment prevention and
data privacy. We also delivered approximately 3,600 hours ● Integrity Ambassador Network: Globally, around 100
of instructor-led ethics and compliance training to Xylem Integrity Ambassadors are trained to confidentially receive
employees globally in 2023. employees’ questions and reports relating to ethics and
compliance concerns and serve as local, trusted resources 9%
Other / inquiry
In addition to training our own employees, we also provide to promote ethics and compliance. Integrity Ambassadors
training to key commercial partners on various topics including are required to take all reasonable and legally permissible
anti-corruption and Code of Conduct topics. steps to protect the identity of all those who report
potential violations in good faith. 8%
Misapropriation of corporate assets
98% ● Management, Human Resources, Legal, Internal Audit,
and Ethics and Compliance Teams (including the 3%
Accounting
Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer): Employees are
completion rate of Code of Conduct training
encouraged to raise concerns directly with any of these
internal resources.
3,600
● Audit Committee of the Board: Concerns can be brought
directly to this committee, which is independent of
hours of instructor-led ethics and
management.
compliance training
48 The training is only recorded as completed when
the employee has completed all modules.
Responsible business conduct Xylem 2023 Sustainability Report 67
Cybersecurity
Xylem’s Board of Directors recognizes the We have implemented a comprehensive cybersecurity Our enterprise and product security programs are tested
importance of maintaining the trust and program guided by recognized industry practices and regularly, including periodic vulnerability scanning and
frameworks, and we continue to evolve the program to assess, penetration tests. In addition, we periodically engage third
confidence of our customers, suppliers,
identify and manage risks from ever-evolving cybersecurity parties to assess our enterprise and product security
employees, and shareholders. In line with threats. Our cybersecurity program encompasses our programs and to advise and assist in the assessment,
enterprise information technology, including operational identification, and management of cybersecurity risks.
its broader strategic oversight, the Board
technology and technology of third parties we rely on, as well
oversees cybersecurity, including strategy as connected products and services. Although we maintain a Employees receive ongoing annual education and training on
cybersecurity program that we believe is reasonably designed relevant cyber security risks and practices, including how to
and processes. The Board and its Audit
to protect Xylem, cybersecurity threats may result in adverse protect information and systems from cyber threats. We also
Committee devote considerable time and effects to the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of our conduct monthly phishing simulations to improve employees’
information systems or those of third parties we rely on, and ability to detect and prevent such threats.
attention to oversight of management’s
our connected products and services.
approach to cybersecurity and related risk
In addition, our policies require the use of a cyber risk
mitigation, including strategy, controls, management process to onboard new suppliers and other
Risk management
third parties.
resources, policies, standards, processes,
and practices. Our enterprise cybersecurity program is guided by the National
Institute of Standards and Technology’s (“NIST”) Cybersecurity Incident response
Framework. Program responsibilities include governance,
risk and compliance, threat analysis and response, security
architecture and engineering, security operations, and secure Our Cybersecurity Incident Response Plan (“IRP”), which
manufacturing operations. generally aligns with NIST’s guidelines, provides management
with a standardized framework for responding to an
Our connected products and services cybersecurity actual or potential cybersecurity threat or incident. It sets
program is guided by the ISA/IEC 62443 standard to enable out a coordinated approach to investigating, containing,
protection and resilience across products and services. documenting, and mitigating incidents, including reporting
Program responsibilities include product security, software findings and keeping senior management and other key
development, innovation management, threat analysis and stakeholders informed and involved, and specifies the use of
incident response. third-party experts for legal advice, consulting, and incident
response, as appropriate. The IRP undergoes at least annual
Both programs are designed to assess, identify, and manage tabletop exercises, where the Incident Response Team
risks from cybersecurity threats to protect and preserve and relevant business functions practice our response to a
the security, integrity and continued availability of Xylem’s simulated cyber incident. The results of these exercises are
information technology systems and connected products used to identify areas for improvement in our processes and
and services, and to protect the confidentiality and integrity of technologies.
information owned by us or in our custody and care. Elements
of the programs include policies, standards, architecture,
processes, tools, technology, employee education and
training, and incident response. Our Code of Conduct requires
employees to comply with all policies and practices, including
as respects cyber security risk management.
Responsible business conduct Xylem 2023 Sustainability Report 68
Intellectual property
Xylem’s wide range of products and We protect intellectual property to prevent its unauthorized
services requires a robust research and use to maintain the competitive advantages it provides us
and our customers. Our company-wide Intellectual Property
development program. Our program’s
Policy guides the management of intellectual property,
innovation efforts often lead to the including the protection of patents, trade secrets, proprietary
technical information, trademarks, service marks, trade
development of new products and
names, and copyrights.
services, which may include new
It also includes a patent award program. Xylem employee
proprietary technologies, unique brands,
inventors are eligible for patent filing and patent grant bonuses
or other intellectual property. We also to encourage prompt disclosure of patentable inventions
relevant to our business and to assist our Intellectual Property
undertake collaborative research and
team in obtaining patents and protecting Xylem inventions.
development efforts with a variety of
If it is determined that an otherwise patentable invention
third parties. Such collaborations may should be maintained as a trade secret instead of applying
for a patent, employee inventors are still eligible to receive the
result in intellectual property ownership
equivalent of the patent filing bonus.
and commercialization agreements
between Xylem and third parties. Intellectual Property Training for
Employees
At the end of 2023:
Xylem employees involved in product research, development,
and marketing receive training on intellectual property,
Xylem had approximately including our Intellectual Property Policy, the importance
of intellectual property rights in protecting proprietary
4,300 patents
technologies and brands, and how this protection maintains
our competitiveness and the competitiveness of our
customers.
1,400
patent applications
3,300
trademark registrations
175
trademark applications in more
than 100 countries
Responsible business conduct Xylem 2023 Sustainability Report 69
Political engagement
Spotlight
Xylem often engages elected officials, Protection Agency (EPA) to allow water and wastewater
policymakers, trade associations, utilities access to the best available technologies to address Q: Can you name some of the key PFAS actions
environmental and climate impacts. We have also supported over the past years that you have worked on or
coalitions, as well as industry and non-
similar efforts through industry associations such as the that have been critical to addressing the issue?
profit stakeholders to accelerate progress Water and Wastewater Equipment Manufacturers Association
(WWEMA) through active participation in its Legislative and Caitlin: We are pleased with the work the
in addressing global water challenges.
Regulatory Committee. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has
A dedicated government affairs team done to address emerging contaminants, such
We also continue to advocate for the enactment of the as the PFAS Strategic Roadmap, which includes
guides our approach to business-critical
Water Infrastructure Modernization Act (HR 3490) to help a multi-faceted approach to curbing PFAS in the
issues in order to pursue opportunities communities improve water affordability, increase water environment. It outlines the EPA’s commitments
equity, improve public health, protect our environment, and for the period from 2021 to 2024 and includes
and mitigate risks posed by new laws and
create a resilient water sector capable of addressing and key actions in the areas of drinking water,
regulations. The team shares information
mitigating the challenges of climate change by integrating process water, land management, research, and
about regulations, government funding smart water technologies into the next generation of water development, and more. We are actively tracking
infrastructure projects. PFAS regulatory updates on all fronts and
and incentives with colleagues across
sharing the information within our business.
the organization to inform their business European Union
An interview with Caitlin Berretta,
Q: What resources are available to utilities in
strategies.
To increase the sustainability efforts in urban wastewater Xylem’s Director of US Government addressing this issue?
treatment, Xylem has been driving the revision of the EU
and Industry Relations. We discuss
Urban Wastewater Directive, which sets minimum standards Caitlin: The 2021 Bipartisan Infrastructure Law
We work through direct advocacy, engagement and coalition for wastewater treatment in the European Union, through advocating for the removal of included $10 billion specifically for projects to
building with like-minded industry stakeholders and non- coalition building and collaboration with trade associations remove emerging contaminants like PFAS from
emerging contaminants from
profit organizations. We are also represented in and in 2023. The European Commission had proposed to revise water, $5 billion of which is allocated for small,
advocate with key trade associations that can advance our the 1991 directive in 2021, adding new requirements for water in the United States rural, and disadvantaged communities. This
public policy agenda. We predominately focus our political the energy neutrality of wastewater treatment plants and funding is a critical step in the right direction.
engagement in the European Union and United States, where the GHG emissions monitoring of carbon dioxide, nitrogen
we have our most significant business presence. We are oxide and methane. The revision also includes mandatory Q: How is Xylem addressing the topic of Read more here.
gradually expanding our global governance work. stormwater overflow plans to help manage extreme weather emerging contaminants in government?
events in cities and a requirement for advanced wastewater
treatment of micropollutants from the pharmaceutical and Caitlin: The acquisition of Evoqua has further
Advocacy highlights in 2023 cosmetics industries to support a zero-pollution agenda strengthened Xylem’s position as an industry
for water in Europe. The new legislation is expected to be leader on emerging contaminants such as per-
adopted in 2024 and transposed into national law in the EU and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS), and this
United States Member States by 2026-2027. has been a key focus of our advocacy work in
the United States. Given our years of experience
A major focus of our efforts has been the Bipartisan in this area, we have been an active thought
Infrastructure Law, which was passed in 2021 and provides leader on Capitol Hill and in federal agencies,
over $63 billion in water-related project funding to our sector sharing our knowledge with key offices to help
through 2026. It included a provision to prioritize the use of them understand the needs of the industry and
domestically sourced manufactured products in infrastructure the many communities across the country that
projects receiving federal financial assistance. In this regard, are impacted.
Xylem has been actively engaged in educating administrative
agencies and federal agencies such as the US Environmental
Responsible business conduct Xylem 2023 Sustainability Report 70
Engaging with trade associations
Trade associations play an important role in promoting
collaboration and bringing stakeholders together to work
toward a common goal. We are a member of a number
of organizations around the world that can help advance
our policy agenda and related business objectives. Our
membership in an organization does not mean that we
support all policy positions of that organization.
In 2023, we launched a comprehensive initiative to develop a
unified approach to tracking and managing our engagement
with trade associations around the world. This allows for
greater accountability that trade association activities and
benefits serve our business interests and align with our views
and values. We place a high value on trade associations that
focus on building human capital through diversity, equity, and
inclusion, education, and volunteer activities.
Advancing shared interests:
The Reservoir Center for Water
Solutions
In June 2022, we opened the Reservoir Center for Water
Solutions in Washington, DC. The center and its concept
provide event, work, and meeting spaces to advance the
common interests of the water sector through collaboration
and constructive dialog and make progress on global water
challenges. We have brought together more than 60 non-profit
organizations, universities, think tanks, youth organizations,
and international organizations at the Reservoir Center to
collaborate, generate new ideas and drive action, and promote
community outreach and water education.
In 2023, the Reservoir Center hosted 71 events and more
than 150 meetings. We welcomed more than 3,000 visitors
and provided more than 600 hours of service to the
community. Our events focused on community engagement,
education and thought leadership. Highlights included a Run
Blue Plogging event, a water advocate and ultra-marathon
endurance runner, as well as a Work in Water event attended
by more than 40 high school students and volunteers from
local public schools. Read more about the Reservoir Center
for Water Solutions in its 2023 Annual Report.
71
Appendix
Accounting principles 72
Datasheet 75
Reporting frameworks 77
LRQA assurance 82
© Prashant Miyani (Xylem)
Appendix Xylem 2023 Sustainability Report 72
Accounting principles
Restatement ● Major facilities for 2025 Company Sustainability Goal Energy consumption and emissions - For categories 2 and 6, spend-based emission factors
(Operations) – Manufacturing facilities featured in the reduction from the U.S. EPA Environmentally Extended Input
2022 Scope 3 GHG emissions (Category 11) – We calculate top 10 contributors list for Xylem's water, waste, and Output (EEIO) database were used to estimate emissions
the Scope 3 emissions from the use of our sold products greenhouse gas emissions over the past three years, or ● Renewable energy – Defined as any of the following: associated with our corporate spend related to the
within Category 11, and a substantial portion of these those located in areas facing extreme water stress, are renewable electricity (including solar, hydro, or wind purchase of capital goods and business travel activities.
emissions come from the electricity used by our custom considered major facilities. Legacy Xylem identified 22 power that is either indirect (purchased from the grid) or
pumps. In 2023, we detected that a large custom pump such facilities in 2019: Auburn, Bridgeport, Cheektowaga, direct (generated on-site), renewable heat (including heat - Category 1 was assessed by way of a hybrid approach,
project included in our 2022 emissions calculations, was Dubois (Liberty), Lubbock, Morton Grove, Pewaukee, San generated by systems powered by renewable electricity using supplier-specific emission totals to allocate the
cancelled before delivery. In this report, the impact of the Diego, Slaton, Texarkana, and Uniontown in the United or energy sources, or passive heating systems), and proportion of which Xylem is responsible for a selection
cancelled project has been removed from the previously States; Chihuahua in Mexico; Emmaboda in Sweden; renewable energy credits (RECs, for facilities where of our top suppliers by spend, in combination with a
reported 2022 emissions and they have been restated. Monteccio in Italy; Herford in Germany; Stara Tura in renewable energy purchase or on-site generation is not general spend-based approach.
Slovakia; Quenington in the United Kingdom; Dubai in presently achievable due to regulations or geography.
2022 Air emissions – We are restating our 2022 methane the United Arab Emirates; Nanjing and Shenyang in Xylem purchases certified RECs to offset its footprint). - Category 3 utilized fuel and electricity totals in
(CH ), and nitrous-oxide (N O) emissions to air following China; Vadodara in India; and Calamba in the Philippines. conjunction with upstream emission factors related to
4 2
a data review in which we discovered an error in our The list of major facilities undergoes periodic review to ● Renewable energy source – Energy source that is the well-to-tank emissions as well as transmission and
calculations, which we have corrected in this report. include facilities consistent with this definition. During the capable of being replenished in a short time through distribution losses sourced from the International Energy
reporting period, the Slaton facility in the United States ecological cycles or agricultural processes, for example Agency (IEA). and the UK Department of Environment,
was closed, resulting in the list of major facilities now geothermal, wind, solar, hydro, and biomass. Food, and Rural Affairs (DEFRA).
Accounting policies –
totaling 21.
Impact on the environment ● Renewable electricity generated – The total amount of - Category 4 utilized carrier-provided emission totals where
Water management renewable electricity generated at a facility, regardless of available, and otherwise utilized a general spend-based
whether the equipment used to generate the electricity is approach.
● Legacy Xylem’s environmental metrics – The ● Total water withdrawal – The total volume of water owned or leased, measured in MWh.
environmental metrics presented in this report for legacy withdrawn from surface water, groundwater, seawater, - Category 5 was assessed by measuring tonnage of waste
Xylem encompass the combined data from the 263 sites produced water, and third-party water measured in ● Direct CO emissions (Scope 1) – GHG emissions from types generated in our operations and assigning average
2
monitored in our Environment, Health, and Safety (EHS) megaliters. sources that are owned or controlled by Xylem (e.g., data emission factors accordingly.
application. emissions associated with fuel combustion in boilers,
● Total water recycled and reused – The total volume of furnaces, vehicles), as outlined by the GHG Protocol - Category 7 used distances of employee commutes
● Legacy Evoqua’s environmental metrics – In 2022 and used water and wastewater processed through another Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard. and derived emissions from certain assumptions (all
2023, Evoqua operated 157 sites as monitored in our cycle before discharge to final treatment and discharge employees using passenger vehicles on a single-occupant
EHS application, each with varying size and complexity. to the environment measured in megaliters. Water ● Indirect CO emissions (Scope 2) – GHG emissions basis, full-time employees commuting 5 days per week,
2
Among these, 45 sites (44 sites and the US/Canadian recycling and reuse can include wastewater recycled that result from the generation of purchased or acquired hybrid employees commuting 3 days per week, and all
vehicle fleet) accounted for over 90% of the total back in the same process or higher use of recycled water electricity, heating, cooling, and steam consumed by employees working 50 weeks per year). Commuting
environmental footprint metrics. The environmental in the process cycle wastewater recycled and reused Xylem, as outlined by the GHG Protocol Corporate employee records without all necessary data represented
metrics presented in this report for legacy Evoqua in a different process but within the same facility; and Accounting and Reporting Standard. We use both approximately 28% and were modeled based on available
encompass the combined data from these 45 sites. wastewater reused at another of the organization’s location- and market-based calculation methodologies. data.
facilities.
● Combined environmental metrics – The environmental ● Indirect CO emissions (Scope 3) – GHG emissions not - Categories 8, 9, 10, and 14 were determined to be not
2
metrics presented in this report for the combined ● Total water treated and released – The total volume of included in indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions that occur relevant to Xylem’s business model. In the case of
company represent the combined data of legacy Xylem’s water treated on site and released from the facility into outside of the organization, including both upstream and Category 9, Xylem’s carriers were not able to provide
263 sites and legacy Evoqua’s selected 45 sites. a sewer system, storm water system or any other water downstream emissions, as outlined by the GHG Protocol downstream transportation and distribution data.
stream measured in megaliters. Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard. In Xylem’s carriers provided everything that was paid for by
preparing Xylem’s Scope 3 calculations, a variety of data Xylem and would therefore be upstream, or Category 4.
● Total water intensity – The total water used in facilities sources, conversions, and emission factor databases Categories 12 and 15 are under further examination.
(megaliters) per unit revenue (millions USD). were utilized. Such as:
Appendix Xylem 2023 Sustainability Report 73
Accounting principles -
- Categories 11 and 13 utilized estimated sold and ● Hazardous waste recycled – Total weight of hazardous ● Total volume of water treated for reuse for 2025
leased product electricity usage respectively, which was waste recycled at the facility or by a waste contractor, Customer Sustainability Goal – The volume of Impact on Society
then assigned generation-based emission factors by measured in metric tons. wastewater that customers are enabled to reuse through
country from the IEA. Note that we have included trade Xylem’s treatment technologies and solutions. The
adjustments in Category 11 for 2024 which we did not ● Hazardous waste to landfill – Total weight of hazardous customer identifies the technologies and solutions as Our people
include in previous years. Additionally, we do not currently waste that is placed directly in a landfill, without any intended for reuse. The full lifetime impact of the solution,
include transmission and distribution losses or other prior treatment (except stabilization, blending, or other based on product lifetime, is counted in the year of ● Number of employees – The number of Xylem
upstream electricity generation factors in our Category 11 operations), measured in metric tons. purchase. Total annual volumes are then accumulated employees is the sum of headcount at year-end of both
and 13 totals. from 2019 to the reporting year. legacy companies. Legacy Xylem’s number of employees
● Hazardous waste to non-landfill – Total weight of include employees under legacy Xylem’s financial control
● Total GHG emissions (Scope 1 & 2) – The total amount hazardous waste that is neither recycled nor placed ● Total polluted water prevented from flooding with a valid permanent contract, excluding interns,
of Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions (location-based) directly in a landfill. communities or entering local waterways for 2025 apprentices, seasonal, and temporary employees. Legacy
measured in metric tons CO e. We calculate our global Customer Sustainability Goal – The volume of polluted Evoqua’s number of employees include employees under
2
GHG emissions footprint each fiscal year following the ● Non-hazardous waste – As defined by the national water prevented from entering waterways annually, legacy Evoqua’s financial control with an active employee
guidelines of the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting legislation at the point of generation, measured in metric attributed to the implementation of Xylem solutions. Total status or that are on unpaid leave, excluding interns,
and Reporting Standard and use operational controls tons. annual volumes are then accumulated from 2019 to the apprentices, and contingent employees.
to categorize those emissions within our organizational reporting year.
boundary. ● Non-hazardous waste recycled – Total weight of non- ● Pay equity assessment for 2025 Company Sustainability
hazardous waste recycled at the facility or by a waste ● Polluted water – Water that is released into waterways Goal (Workplace) – Assessment of pay equity completed
● Total GHG emissions (Scope 1 & 2) intensity – The total contractor, measured in metric tons. from combined sewer overflow (CSO) events. for eligible employees. The majority of non-eligible
amount of Scope 1 and 2 emissions (metric tons CO e) employees are paid either on the basis of union contracts
2
per unit revenue (millions USD). ● Non-hazardous waste to landfill – Total weight of ● Reduction of water’s CO footprint for 2025 Customer or collective agreements.
2
non-hazardous waste that is placed directly in a landfill, Sustainability Goal – The enabled reduction in metric
● Total net GHG emissions (Scope 1 & 2) intensity – The without any prior treatment (except stabilization, blending tons of CO e emissions achieved through the estimated ● Employees by geographical area – The number and
2
amount of Scope 1 and 2 emissions after deducting the or other operations), measured in metric tons. reduction in lifetime energy consumption when a legacy percentage of employees by the assigned geographical
GHG emissions avoided through purchased renewable Xylem technology is replaced with the most current Xylem area of their work location. The regions are defined as:
energy credits, renewable electricity generated, and ● Non-hazardous waste to non-landfill – Total weight of innovative technology. The full lifetime impact of the Americas (Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Colombia,
renewable purchased heat, considered as net GHG non-hazardous waste that is neither recycled nor placed solution, based on product lifetime, is counted in the year Mexico, Peru, United States of America, Uruguay); Europe
emissions (including renewable electricity) per unit directly in a landfill. of purchase. Total annual volumes are then accumulated (Austria, Belgium, Czechia, Denmark, Finland, France,
revenue (millions USD). from 2019 to the reporting year. Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg,
● Packaging material – Includes at a minimum corrugated Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russian
● Other air emissions – Carbon dioxide (CO ), methane fiberboard, plastic wrap, liquid foam packaging (Instapak), ● Product lifetime – The expected lifetime use of a Federation, Slovakia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, United
2
(CH ), nitrous oxide (N O), and volatile organic rolled foam, wood (crates and pallets), paper, metal, and product, as judged by Xylem subject matter experts. Kingdom); Emerging markets (Algeria, Australia, Bahrain,
4 2
compounds (VOCs) measured in metric tons. other plastic. Product lifetime is applied in formulae for calculating China, Côte d'Ivoire, Egypt, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia,
the estimated full lifetime impacts of a product that is Japan, Kenya, Republic of Korea, Libya, Malaysia,
Waste management Product sustainability purchased. It is not applied in rental scenarios. Morocco, New Zealand, Oman, Philippines, Qatar, Saudi
Arabia, Singapore, South Africa, Taiwan, Thailand, Türkiye,
● Zero waste to landfill for 2025 Company Sustainability ● Total reduction of non-revenue water (NRW) for 2025 United Arab Emirates, Vietnam).
Goal (Operations) – Achieved when a facility adheres Customer Sustainability Goal – This is calculated as the
to industry-wide standards dictating that a minimum of volume of NRW that Xylem enables customers to mitigate ● Leadership and management categories – Leadership:
90% waste diverted from landfills, with no more than 10% when they use leak detection technologies. The annual employees who are in director level and above, significant
is used for energy recovery. Waste is considered from volumes that are potentially mitigated are accumulated business leader, or an executive leader role. Middle
process when, during manufacturing or processing, it from 2019 to the reporting year. management (Middle mgt.): employees in professional
comes into direct contact with, or results from the use of specialist, supervisor, manager, senior manager,
any raw material, intermediate product, finished product, ● Non-revenue water – Water that is produced but not and similar roles (includes both people leader and
or by-product. Waste includes process scrap. consumed due to losses. Real losses (referred to as individual contributor roles). Non-management (Non-
physical losses) occur through leaks. Apparent losses mgt.): employees in line, staff, and similar roles with no
● Hazardous waste – As defined by the national legislation occur through theft or metering inaccuracies. managerial responsibilities.
at the point of generation, measured in metric tons.
Appendix Xylem 2023 Sustainability Report 74
● Employees by gender – The number and percentage of Community impact Accounting principles -
employees by their self-identified gender (man/woman/ Responsible business conduct
not disclosed) across leadership and management ● Measuring WASH access – When installing new WASH
categories. solutions in schools, hospitals, homes, and communities,
we meticulously consider the number of individuals Ethics and compliance
● Women in leadership – The number and percentage affected based on the output of these solutions. For
of employees that self-identify as women who are in instance, each AquaBlock Emergency Water System ● Completion of ethics and compliance training – The
director level and above, significant business leader, or an deployed in partnership with Planet Water Foundation completion rate of employees in scope for the online
executive leader role. can produce 1,500 liters of drinking water per hour, training out of the total number of employees in scope.
effectively meeting the daily drinking water needs of The completion rate is based on registrations in Xylem’s
● Employees by race/ethnicity – The number and up to 10,000 people. Similarly, when enhancing WASH Learning Management system and is only recorded as
percentage of employees (in the United States only) by infrastructure or facilities in institutions or communities, “completed” when all training modules are completed.
their self-identified race/ethnicity (White, Black or African such as repairing handwashing stations in schools, These modules address topics such Xylem’s Code
American, Hispanic or Latino, Asian, Two or more races, installing latrines in hospitals, or optimizing existing water of Conduct, reporting concerns, avoiding conflicts of
Native Hawaiian or other Pacific Islander, American Indian systems to promote water conservation, our on-the- interest, complying with anti-corruption policies and
or Alaska Native, Not specified, or no answer provided) ground partners assist us in assessing the intervention's procedures, antitrust compliance, harassment prevention
across leadership and management categories. Our impact. This evaluation takes into account the population and data privacy.
“Other race and ethnic minority” reporting combines “Two utilizing these facilities and those who benefit from the
or more races,” “Native Hawaiian or other Pacific Islander,” improvements moving forward. ● Xylem Integrity Line reports – Xylem Integrity Line
and “American Indian or Alaska Native.” reports are the number or reports that have been
Operating at the systemic level, we advocate for WASH recorded in Xylem’s whistleblower system, the Integrity
● Annual voluntary turnover rate – The voluntary turnover access and education improvements by collaborating Line, and investigated during the year irrespective of who
rate is calculated by dividing the number of voluntary with partners like UNICEF, fostering change at the made the misconduct report or how the misconduct was
leavers by the annual average number of employees at governmental level. Xylem allocates dedicated funding to reported.
end-of period. This is a rolling 12-month rate. UNICEF India for its WASH program, enabling us to track
our reach in terms of improved WASH education and Intellectual property
Health and safety access. This measurement is calculated as a proportion
of UNICEF India's annual WASH beneficiaries, reflecting ● Number of patents – The number of patents granted,
● Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) – Calculation our commitment to advancing WASH initiatives. including design and utility patents, and excluding
formula for TRIR per 100 employees: (number of pending patent applications, of the combined company.
recordable incidents x 200,000) / total number of hours ● Water-related natural disasters – Our definition
worked. This formula is the same as the calculation of the of a water-related natural disaster is based on the
Injury or Illness Rate in the LRQA Assurance Statement on classification of disasters by the EM-DAT – International
p. 82-84. Disaster Database of the Centre for Research on the
Epidemiology of Disasters: Water-related natural disasters
● Fatalities – Number of employee work-related deaths. refer to meteorological, hydrological, and climatological
disasters such as droughts and wildfires, floods, wet
● Lost Time Injury Rate – Calculation formula for LTIR per mass movements (landslide, avalanche, subsidence),
100 employees: (number of lost time injuries x 200,000) / storms, wave action, or water-borne disease outbreaks.
total number of hours worked. This formula is the same To be affected by water-related natural disasters is to
as the calculations used for the Days Away from Work experience, as a result of the disaster, reduced access
Rate in the LRQA Assurance Statement on p. 82-84. to clean water or safe sanitation, damage to person
or property, and/or exposure to pollution. Xylem also
Responsible sourcing considers technological disasters and disasters such
as earthquakes and airborne pandemics, which do not
● Global spend for legacy Xylem – Global spend as it include damage through water, if there is a water-related
relates to our 2025 Company Sustainability Goals (Supply aid response.
Chain) is based on a 12-month rolling average (December
to November), and not calendar year.
Appendix Xylem 2023 Sustainability Report 75
Datasheet – Impact on the environment 49
2023 50 2022 2021 2020 2019
Combined Legacy Legacy Legacy Legacy Evoqua Legacy Legacy Legacy Legacy Legacy Legacy Legacy
Xylem Evoqua 51 Xylem Q422 51, 52 Evoqua 51 Xylem Evoqua 51 Xylem Evoqua 51 Xylem Evoqua 51
Water (in ML)
Total water withdrawal 2,556 297.1 2,259 325.3 548 2,141 342.1 2,068 357.8 2,028 442.9 1,967
Total water recycled and reused 2,101 227 1,874 241 455 1,427 121.4 1,171 58.5 1,272 51.8 1,218
Water recycled and reused (%) 82% 76% 83% 74.10% 83% 66.60% 35.50% 56.60% 16.40% 62.70% 11.70% 61.90%
Total water treated and released 32.6 32.6 - 32.7 - - 56.5 - 53.6 - 56.7 -
Total revenues (millions USD) 8,146 53 6,187 - 5,522 436 1,737 5,195 1,464 4,876 1,429 5,249 1,444
Total water intensity (ML / annual revenues in millions USD ) - 0.048 - 0.0591 1.258 1.233 0.0658 1.412 0.0733 1.419 0.0844 1.362
Waste (in t)
Non-hazardous waste recycled 32,067 30,680 1,387 26,703 346 - 22,421 - 21,570 - 21,772 -
Non-hazardous waste to non-landfill 1,588 1,411 177 1,600 48 - 1,653 - 1,435 - 1,557 -
Non-hazardous waste to landfill 8,053 5,232 2,821 5,807 708 - 7,140 - 7,295 - 9,132 -
Total non-hazardous waste 41,708 37,323 4,385 34,110 1,102 4,612 31,214 4,355 30,300 4,219 32,461 4,231
Hazardous waste recycled 1,241 414 827 355 199 - 377 - 289 - 399 -
Hazardous waste to non-landfill 13,393 1,224 12,169 1,202 3,066 - 1,437 - 1,09 X0 ylem 2023 Sust- ainability Rep9 o58 rt 75 -
Hazardous waste to landfill 63 12 51 55 34 - 23 - 43 - 111 -
Total hazardous waste 14,698 1,651 13,047 1,592 3,298 13,885 1,837 13,492 1,422 13,388 1,467 14,163
Total waste recycled 33,308 31,094 2,214 27,038 545 2,351 22,798 2,426 21,860 1,937 22,171 1,879
Total waste to non-landfill 14,981 2,635 12,346 2,802 3,114 - 3,090 - 2,525 - 2,514 -
Total waste to landfill 8,117 5,245 2,872 5,861 742 3,154 7,163 2,874 7,338 2,997 9,243 3,090
Total waste 56,406 38,974 17,432 35,702 4,400 18,497 33,052 17,847 31,723 17,607 33,929 18,394
Energy consumption
Direct energy by type (in MWh)
Renewable electricity generated 1,526 1,526 - 1,337 - - 1,203 - 1,036 - 1,031 -
Natural gas 152,898 84,714 68,184 98,832 24,748 102,401 116,305 113,799 88,545 113,337 100,175 115,560
Stationary source gaseous propane 161 161 - 55 - - 10 - 0 - 0.4 -
Stationary source liquid propane 4,729 4,729 - 2,451 - - 2,206 - 3,249 - 2,318 -
Stationary source fuel oil 6,789 6,049 740 5,832 258 755 8,671 806 7,237 997 5,419 862
Total stationary energy usage 166,103 97,179 68,924 108,506 25,006 103,156 128,396 114,605 100,067 114,334 108,943 116,422
Mobile source gasoline 65,885 11,359 54,526 11,815 14,280 48,644 8,237 37,450 3,879 31,802 4,612 33,747
Mobile source diesel 110,027 59,872 50,155 69,558 11,161 46,400 80,510 47,063 71,652 49,649 76,993 48,938
Mobile source liquid propane 1,075 6.57 1,068 1.9 312 1,264 0.71 1,093 0.71 1,083 0.16 1,215
Total mobile energy usage 176,987 71,237 105,750 81,375 25,754 96,309 88,748 85,606 75,531 82,534 81,605 83,899
Total direct energy usage 54 343,090 168,416 174,674 189,881 50,760 199,464 217,144 200,211 175,598 196,868 190,548 200,322
Indirect energy by type (in MWh)
Purchased electricity 187,351 156,954 30,397 163,572 8,146 32,832 162,410 35,007 166,988 37,074 167,232 37,868
Purchased heat 10,565 10,565 - 9,078 - - 10,939 - 8,282 - 8,498 -
Total indirect energy usage 197,916 167,519 30,397 172,650 8,146 32,832 173,350 35,007 175,269 37,074 175,730 37,868
Total energy consumption 541,007 335,936 205,071 362,531 58,906 232,296 390,493 235,218 350,868 233,942 366,278 238,190
Total revenues (millions USD) 8,146 53 6,187 - 5,522 436 1,737 5,195 1,464 4,876 1,429 5,249 1,444
Total energy intensity (MWh / annual revenue in millions USD) - 54.3 - 65.9 - - - - - - - -
Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions
Scope 1 (direct) (in tCO e)
2
Natural gas used 28,142 15,356 12,786 17,915 4,641 19,202 21,082 21,340 16,050 21,253 18,158 21,670
Stationary sources gaseous propane 34.2 34.2 - 11.7 - - 2.2 - 0 - 0.1 -
Stationary sources liquid propane 990 990 - 513 - - 462 - 680 - 485 -
Stationary source fuel oil 1,710 1,524 186 1,469 65 190 2,185 203 1,823 251 1,365 217
Cyrogenic CO 2 1.2 1.2 - 1 - - 1.5 - 1.3 - 1.3 -
Refrigerant use 188 188 - 50 - - 133 - 183 - 532 -
Total stationary GHG emissions 31,065 18,093 12,972 19,960 4,702 19,392 23,866 21,543 18,738 21,504 20,543 21,887
Mobile source gasoline 16,057 2,985 13,072 3,105 3,424 11,662 2,165 8,978 1,019 7,624 1,212 8,090
Mobile source diesel 28,709 15,979 12,730 18,712 2,833 11,777 21,659 11,946 19,276 12,602 20,713 12,421
Mobile source liquid propane 389 168 221 48 62 262 18 226 18 224 4 251
Total mobile GHG emissions 45,156 19,132 26,024 21,866 6,319 23,701 23,842 21,150 20,313 20,450 21,929 20,763
Total Scope 1 emissions 76,221 37,225 38,996 41,826 11,025 43,093 47,707 42,692 39,051 41,954 42,471 42,650
Scope 2 (indirect) (in tCO e)
2
Purchased electricity 51,126 38,939 12,187 41,241 3,125 12,863 42,093 13,925 48,130 14,487 48,354 14,141
Purchased heat 1,579 1,579 - 2,054 - - 2,476 - 1,809 - 1,773 -
Total Scope 2 emissions – location based 52,704 40,517 12,187 43,295 3,125 12,863 44,569 13,925 49,939 14,487 50,127 14,141
Total Scope 2 emissions – market based 18,272 5,585 12,687 10,132 3,356 - 18,214 - 24,766 - 28,763 -
Scope 3 (indirect) (in tCO e)
2
Category 1 – Purchased goods 869,020 - - 2,140,679 - - 2,051,168 190,632 - - 1,978,871 -
Category 2 – Capital goods 13,924 - - - - - - 5,659 - - - -
Category 3 – Fuel and energy-related activities 40,998 - - 2,500 - - 2,561 13,457 - - 20,643 -
Category 4 – Upstream transport 217,852 - - 101,082 - - 272,265 41,035 - - 251,410 -
Category 5 – Waste generated 14,546 - - 10,958 - - 6,776 2,468 - - 6,050 -
Category 6 – Business travel 31,518 - - 6,349 - - 2,182 6,617 - - 11,653 -
Category 7 – Employee commuting 45,064 - - 20,400 - - 20,400 6,290 - - 20,400 -
Category 9 – Downstream transport 49 - - - 63,045 - - 56,518 - - - 11,653 -
Category 11 – Use of sold products 61,288,587 - - 64,005,249 55 - - 58,794,207 1,280,811 - - 69,500,776 -
Category 13 – Downstream leased assets 629,286 - - - - - - 73,900 - - - -
Total Scope 3 emissions 63,150,795 - - 66,350,262 55 - - 61,206,079 1,749,544 - - 71,834,829 -
Total GHG emissions (Scope 1 & 2) intensity (in tCO e / annual revenues in millions USD)
2
Total GHG emissions (Scope 1 & 2) 128,924 77,742 51,182 85,094 14,240 55,956 92,276 56,618 88,990 56,441 92,598 56,791
Total revenues (millions USD) 8,146 53 6,187 - 5,522 436 1,737 5,195 1,464 4,876 1,429 5,249 1,444
Total GHG emissions (Scope 1 & 2) intensity - 12.6 - 15.5 0.0327 0.0326 17.75 0.0387 18.2 0.0395 17.64 -
Emissions avoided via purchased renewable energy credits 34,448 34,448 - 32,825 - - 25,987 - 24,515 - 17,605 -
Renewable electricity generated 800 800 - 706 - - 605 - 652 - 681 -
Renewable purchased heat 813 813 - 809 - - 1,039 - 5 - 6 -
Net GHG emissions (Scope 1 & 2) incl. renewable energ 93,676 42,494 51,182 50,754 14,240 55,956 64,645 56,618 63,817 56,411 74,306 56,784
Total net GHG emissions (Scope 1 & 2) intensity - 6.87 - 9.23 32.7 32.2 12.43 38.7 13.08 39.5 14.15 39.3
Air emissions (in t)
Volatile organic compound (VOC) emissions 91.1 91.1 - 90.3 - - 81.8 - 81.1 - 89.4 -
Other GHG emissions (in t)
CO 2 58,842 58,842 - 64,858 - - 69,193 - - - - -
CH 4 17.1 17.1 - 17.02 - - 17 - - - - -
N 2O 79.3 79.3 - 82.69 - - 85 - - - - -
49 See Accounting principles on p. 72-73 for more information. 52 Legacy Evoqua’s Q422 data refers to October 1 – December 31, 2022.
50 Legacy Xylem, legacy Evoqua and the combined 2023 environmental data refers to January 1 – December 31, 2023. 53 2023 pro forma revenue of the combined company.
Legacy Xylem data for 2022, 2021, 2020 and 2019 refers to legacy Xylem’s fiscal year from January 1 – December 31
54 Total direct energy usage = stationary + mobile
of each reporting year. Legacy Evoqua data for 2022, 2021, 2020 and 2019 refers to legacy Evoqua’s fiscal year from
October 1 – September 31 of each reporting year. Legacy Evoqua’s Q422 data refers to October 1 – December 31, 2022. 55 See restatement for 2022 Scope 3 GHG emissions (Category 11) in the accounting principles on page 72-73.
51 Representing 45 sites (44 sites and the US/Canadian vehicle fleet) of legacy Evoqua that accounted for over 90% of its
total environmental footprint metrics.
Appendix Xylem 2023 Sustainability Report 76
Datasheet – Impact on society 56
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
Combined Legacy Xylem Legacy Evoqua Legacy Xylem Legacy Evoqua Legacy Xylem Legacy Evoqua Legacy Xylem Legacy Evoqua Legacy Xylem Legacy Evoqua
Employees
Total employees (#) 22,786 18,244 4,542 17,926 ~4,500 17,551 ~4,000 16,656 ~4,020 16,461 ~4,150
Annual voluntary turnover rate (%) 8.50% 8.06% 11.17% 11.20% - 13.60% - 12.24% - - -
By gender (# (%))
Men 16,943 (74.36%) 13,383 (73.36%) 3,560 (78.38%) 13,145 (73.30%) - 12,812 (74.20%) - 12,440 (74.70%) - 12,445 (-) -
Women 5,747 (25.22%) 4,765 (26.12%) 982 (21.62%) 4,648 (25.90%) - (21.30%) 4,365 (25.30%) - (20%) 4,159 (25%) - (20%) 4,016 (-) -
Not specified 96 (0.42%) 96 (0.42%) 0 133 (0.70%) - 14 (0.10%) - 3 (0%) - - -
No answer provided 0 0 0 - - 67 (0.40%) - 54 (0.30%) - - -
By geographical area (# (%))
Americas 10,405 (45.66%) 6,877 (37.69%) 3,528 (77.68%) 6,667 (37.20%) - (74.90%) 6,538 (37%) - 7,478 (45%) - 6,520 (40%) -
Europe 8,754 (38.39%) 8,197 (44.93%) 550 (12.11%) 8,160 (45.50%) - 7,931 (45%) - 6,370 (38%) - 7,250 (44%) -
Emerging markets 3,627 (15.92%) 3,170 (17.38%) 464 (10.22%) 3,099 (17.30%) - 3,082 (18%) - 2,808 (17%) - 2,691 (16%) -
By management level (# (%))
Leadership – Total 904 (3.97%) 725 (3.98%) 179 (3.94%) - - - - - - - -
Leadership – Men 675 (74.67%) 534 (73.66%) 141 (78.77%) - - - - - - - -
Leadership – Women 229 (25.33%) 191 (26.34%) 38 (21.23%) 180 (25.40%) - 158 (24.70%) - 137 (23.80%) - - -
Leadership – Not specified 0 0 0 - - - - - - - -
Middle mgt. – Total 11,571 (50.78%) 9,298 (50.96%) 2,273 (50.04%) - - - - - - - -
Middle mgt. – Men 8,605 (74.37%) 6,942 (74.66%) 1,663 (73.16%) - - - - - - - -
Middle mgt. – Women 2,932 (25.34%) 2,322 (24.97%) 610 (26.86%) 2,155 (24.30%) - 1,909 (23.40%) - 1,741 (22.60%) - - -
Middle mgt. – Not specified 34 (0.29%) 34 (0.37%) 0 - - - - - - - -
Non-mgt. – Total 10,311 (45.25%) 8,221 (45.06%) 2,090 (46.02%) - - - - - - - -
Non-mgt. – Men 7,663 (74.32%) 5,907 (71.85%) 1,756 (84.02%) - - - - - - - -
Non-mgt. – Women 2,586 (25.08%) 2,252 (27.40%) 334 (15.98%) 2,289 (27.20%) - 2,289 (27.10%) - 2,250 (27.10%) - - -
Non-mgt. – Not specified 62 (0.60%) 62 (0.75%) 0 - - - - - - - -
U.S. employees by race and ethnic minority group (# (%)) 57
Leadership – Total 90 (19.11%) 73 (20.51%) 17 (11.04%) 72 (20.90%) - 67 (19.30%) - 55 (17.20%) - - (0.40%) -
Leadership – African-American 17 (3.61%) 14 (4.09%) 3 (2.33%) 14 (4.10%) - 13 (3.70%) - 8 (2.50%) - - (0.10%) -
Leadership – Asian-American 34 (7.22%) 28 (8.19%) 6 (4.65%) 25 (7.20%) - 25 (7.20%) - 22 (6.90%) - - (0.20%) -
Leadership – Hispanic 29 (6.16%) 22 (6.43%) 7 (5.43%) 21 (6.10%) - 18 (5.20%) - 16 (5%) - - (0.10%) -
Leadership – Other race and ethnic minorities 10 (2.12%) 9 (2.63%) 1 (0.78%) 12 (3.50%) - 11 (3.20%) - 9 (2.80%) - - (0.20%) -
Middle mgt. – Total 881 (21.58%) 637 (22.17%) 244 (15.46%) 552 (20.20%) - 512 (19%) - 485 (18.30%) - - (0%) -
Middle mgt. – African-American 219 (5.37%) 162 (5.77%) 57 (4.47%) 150 (5.50%) - 122 (4.50%) - 116 (4.40%) - - (0.70%) -
Middle mgt. – Asian-American 302 (7.40%) 225 (8.02%) 77 (6.03%) 197 (7.20%) - 186 (6.90%) - 181 (6.80%) - - (0.50%) -
Middle mgt. – Hispanic 276 (6.76%) 194 (6.91%) 82 (6.43%) 158 (5.80%) - 155 (5.70%) - 141 (5.30%) - - (0.70%) -
Middle mgt. – Other race and ethnic minorities 84 (2.06%) 56 (2%) 28 (2.19%) 47 (1.70%) - 49 (1.80%) - 47 (1.80%) - - (0.20%) -
Non-mgt. – Total 1,414 (35.86%) 897 (33.96%) 517 (31.07%) 820 (32.20%) - 814 (32%) - 746 (30.30%) - - (21.40%) -
Non-mgt. – African-American 593 (15.04%) 390 (15.06%) 203 (15%) 330 (13%) - 315 (12.40%) - 296 (12%) - - (6.60%) -
Non-mgt. – Asian-American 138 (3.50%) 99 (3.82%) 39 (2.88%) 105 (4.10%) - 109 (4.20%) - 106 (4.30%) - - (5.20%) -
Non-mgt. – Hispanic 561 (14.23%) 330 (12.74%) 231 (17.07%) 322 (12.70%) - 331 (13%) - 293 (11.90%) - - (8.40%) -
Non-mgt. – Other race and ethnic minorities 122 (3.09%) 78 (3.01%) 44 (3.25%) 63 (2.50%) - 60 (2.40%) - 51 (2.10%) - - (1.20%) -
U.S. employees by age (# (%))
<30 years – Total - 779 (13.20%) - 716 (12.70%) - - (12.40)% - - (11.20%) - - (12.70%) -
<30 years – Leadership - 0 - 8 (0.10%) - - (0%) - - (0%) - - (0%) -
<30 years – Middle mgt. - 20 (0.34%) - 18 (0.30%) - - (0.30%) - - (0.30%) - - (0.30%) -
<30 years – Non mgt. - 759 (12.86%) - 690 (12.20%) - - (12.10%) - - (10.90%) - - (12.30%) -
30-50 years – Total - 2,838 (48.08%) - 2,663 (47.10%) - - (47.10%) - - (47.30%) - - (45.10%) -
30-50 years – Leadership - 69 (1.17%) - 196 (3.50%) - - (3.40%) - - (1.40%) - - (1.20%) -
30-50 years – Middle mgt. - 454 (7.69%) - 334 (5.90%) - - (6.20%) - - (7.70%) - - (7.40%) -
30-50 years – Non mgt. - 2,315 (39.22%) - 2,133 (37.80%) - - (37.50%) - - (38.10%) - - (36.60%) -
>50 years – Total - 2,286 (38.73%) - 2,271 (40.20%) - - (40.50%) - - (41.60%) - - (42.20%) -
>50 years – Leadership - 76 (1.29%) - 174 (3.10%) - - (2.80%) - - (1.20%) - - (1.10%) -
>50 years – Middle mgt. - 350 (5.93%) - 252 (4.50%) - - (4.70%) - - (6%) - - (5.80%) -
>50 years – Non mgt. - 1,860 (31.51%) - 1,845 (32.70%) - - (33%) - - (34.40%) - - (35.30%) -
Training
Annual average formal learning hours per employee 16.75 16.71 16.93 14 - 12.9 - 6 - 11.9 -
Employee health and safety
Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) 0.61 0.54 0.85 0.64 0.68 0.68 1.2 0.62 0.81 0.66 1.11
Lost Time Injury Rate (LTIR) 0.33 0.33 0.34 0.34 0.09 0.39 0.26 0.31 0.28 0.34 0.25
Fatalities 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Responsible sourcing (%)
Suppliers that have taken the WASH4Work Pledge - 49% - 40.40% - 35% - 19% - - -
(% of global spend)
Suppliers that have completed EcoVadis assessment - 43.40% - 39.70% - - - - - - -
(% of global spend)
Suppliers that have completed CDP disclosure - 35.80% - 32.40% - - - - - - -
(% of global spend)
U.S. spend from diverse suppliers 8.30% 10.20% - 9.10% - 8.20% - - - - -
Community impact
Number of volunteer hours - 184,000+ - 156,000+ - 113,000 - 53,100 - 70,000+ -
Employees who participated in volunteer activities (%) - 89% - 87% - 78% - 45% - 58%
Number of people reached with WASH solution (millions) 3.8M - - 2.4M - 1.8M - 3.5M - 640,000
Number of people reached with Xylem’s water 3.3M - - 1.7M - 1.4M - 3.6M - 320,000 -
education programs (millions) -
Number of areas provided with humanitarian aid 30 - - 30 - 23 - 17 - 11 -
56 See Accounting principles on p. 73-74 for more information.
57 For more detailed representation data, please see our U.S. Federal Employer Information EEO-1 Report.
Appendix Xylem 2023 Sustainability Report 77
Reporting frameworks
GRI Content Index
GRI Standard / Other source Response / location
Statement of use: GRI 1 used 2-16 Communication of critical concerns The Board has established a process to facilitate communication between
Xylem Inc. has reported the information cited in this GRI GRI 1: Foundation 2021 shareholders and other interested parties with the Company’s independent
content index for the period 1 January 2023 to 31 December directors. Communications intended for the Board, or for any individual
2023 with reference to the GRI Standards. Applicable GRI Sector Standard(s) member or members of the Board, should be sent by: (1) e-mail to
None IndependentDirectors@xylem.com or (2) mail directed to our Corporate
Secretary at Xylem Inc.,301 Water Street SE, Washington, DC 20003, with
a request to forward the communication to the intended recipients. See
For the Content Index – Essentials With Reference option Service, GRI Services reviewed that the GRI content index has “Communicating with the Board of Directors” (p. 35) in our 2024 Proxy
been presented in a way consistent with the requirements for reporting with reference to the GRI Standards, and that the Statement. Also see “Reporting mechanisms” (p. 66), and Xylem’s Integrity Line.
information in the index is clearly presented and accessible to the stakeholders.
2-17 Collective knowledge of the highest The Nominating & Governance Committee conducts targeted efforts to
GRI Standard / Other source Response / location governance body identify and recruit individuals that have the requisite experience, skills, and
qualifications, keeping in mind our commitment to actively seek qualified
General disclosures
women and individuals from minority groups to include in the pool of candidates
from which directors are selected. Directors and candidates should be
GRI 2: General disclosures 2021
persons of the highest personal and professional ethics, integrity, and values,
2-1 Organizational details Xylem Inc.: with significant accomplishments and recognized stature, and who bring a
301 Water Street SE, Washington, DC, 20003 diversity of backgrounds and perspectives to the Board and are committed to
representing the long-term interests of the shareholders. Our Board believes that
Xylem Facilities Worldwide: the current directors have the appropriate mix of experience, skills, qualifications,
See our website for the full list of facilities worldwide. and attributes needed to lead the Company at the Board level. See “Election of
Publicly traded company listed on the New York Stock Exchange (XYL). Directors” (p. 7) in our 2024 Proxy Statement.
2-2 Entities included in the organization’s This report covers Xylem Inc. and all entities under Xylem’s operational control. 2-18 Evaluation of the performance of the Each year our Nominating & Governance Committee initiates a comprehensive
sustainability reporting highest governance body assessment of the effectiveness of the Board and each of our committees, and,
at its option, individual directors, using either a self-assessment or third-party
2-3 Reporting period, frequency, Reporting period: January 1, 2023 – December 31, 2023. advisor and facilitator. The objective of the annual assessment process is to
and contact point Frequency: Annual identify and assess areas where the Board functions effectively and areas where
Contact Point: xylem.sustainability@xylem.com it can improve. See “Board effectiveness” (p. 27) in our 2024 Proxy Statement.
2-4 Restatements of information The sustainability data in this report has been combined for legacy Xylem 2-19 Remuneration policies A comprehensive discussion of director and executive compensation can be
and legacy Evoqua. For more information, see “About the report” (p. 3), and found in our 2024 Proxy Statement (p. 40-67).
“Accounting principles” (p. 72-74).
2-20 Process to determine remuneration Our Board values the input and insights of the Company’s shareholders and
2-5 External assurance See “LRQA Assurance” (p. 82-84) believes that effective Board-shareholder communication strengthens the
Board’s role as an active, informed and engaged fiduciary. We make a concerted
2-6 Activities, value chain, and other See “Our business” (p. 6), and “Business overview” (p. 4) effort to engage with shareholders throughout the year to solicit their input on
business relationships in our 2023 10-K. a range of topics related to executive compensation and governance matters.
. For more information, see “Shareholder engagement program” (p. 33) in our
2-7 Employees See “DEI in numbers” (p. 45-46), and “Datasheet” (p. 76) 2024 Proxy Statement. A comprehensive discussion of director and executive
compensation can be found in our 2024 Proxy Statement (p. 40-67)
2-8 Workers who are not employees This data is not available.
2-21 Annual total compensation ratio In 2023, the ratio between the annual total compensation of the chief executive
2-9 Governance structure and composition Our Board oversees the interests of our shareholders in the Company’s long- officer and the annual total compensation for the median employee was 192:1.
term health, business, financial strength, and overall success. The Board serves For more information, see p. 64 in our 2024 Proxy Statement.
as the ultimate decision-making body of the company, except for those matters
reserved to or shared with the shareholders. The Board and its Audit Committee, 2-22 Statement on sustainable See “A message from Matthew Pine” (p. 4), and “A message from Claudia
Leadership Development & Compensation Committee and Nominating & development strategy Toussaint” (p. 4).
Governance Committee oversee management’s approach to managing key risks.
For more information, see “Role of the Board” (p. 20), and “Oversight of Risk” 2-23 Policy commitments See Xylem Policies.
(p. 21) in our 2024 Proxy Statement.
2-24 Embedding policy commitments Xylem’s Board of Directors, primarily through its Nominating & Governance
2-10 Nomination and selection of the Our Board, through its Nominating & Governance Committee, regularly reviews Committee, provides oversight of Xylem’s approach to sustainability and
highest governance body the experience, skills and qualifications needed to properly oversee the interests of corporate social responsibility. The integration of specific ESG policy
the Company and its shareholders, considering the Company’s short and long- commitments into Xylem’s strategies and operational procedures is overseen
term strategies, and evolving global operations. Our Nominating & Governance by various cross-functional teams.
Committee also regularly reviews Board size and composition. The Committee is
responsible for identifying and recommending qualified director candidates to the 2-25 Processes to remediate negative To facilitate compliance with our principles, we’ve adopted straightforward
Board of Directors. In fulfilling this responsibility, the Nominating & Governance impacts processes for colleagues and other stakeholders to report their concerns and
Committee seeks to identify candidates who possess the experience, skills, instances of observed misconduct. See “Reporting Mechanisms” (p. 66) for
qualifications, and attributes necessary to provide a broad range of personal more details.
characteristics to the Board, including diversity of thought and background,
experience in technology and innovation, and global business experience. 2-26 Mechanisms for seeking advice and We provide multiple reporting tools so that concerned individuals can report in
All directors annually stand for re-election at the annual shareholder meeting. raising concerns a way most comfortable to them. See “Reporting Mechanisms” (p. 66) for more
For more information, see “Election of Directors” (p. 7-8), “Board effectiveness” details.
(p. 27), and “Board diversity” (p. 29) in our 2024 Proxy Statement.
2-27 Compliance with laws and In 2023, Xylem had no significant non-compliance with laws and regulations.
2-11 Chair of the highest governance body Our Board is led by our independent Chair. The Board believes that our current regulations For more information, see Note 20, “Commitments and Contingencies” (p. 76),
leadership structure strengthens the Board’s role in oversight of the Company. of the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of Part II of Xylem’s
Mr. Robert Friel currently serves as our independent Chair and was re-elected to 10-K for the year ended 2023, filed February 23, 2024 for information regarding
the role effective following the 2024 Annual Meeting. For more information, see certain legal and regulatory proceedings we are involved in.
“Board leadership structure” (p. 26) in our 2024 Proxy Statement.
2-28 Membership associations Xylem also holds positions in, participates with or provides funding beyond
2-12 Role of the highest governance body At Xylem, sustainability is at the center of who we are, and what we do. As routine membership dues to industry associations and advocacy organizations.
in overseeing the management of impacts a leading global water technology company, we address one of the world’s These are some examples:
most urgent sustainability challenges – responsible stewardship of our shared
water resources. The Board and its committees, as appropriate, regularly Industry ● World Economic Forum
discuss with management our approach to sustainability, including risks and ● Water and Wastewater Equipment
opportunities, implications for the Company’s strategy, our progress in meeting ● American Water Works Association Manufacturers Association
our sustainability-related commitments, and our sustainability reporting. One ● Alliance for Energy Savings (EU-ASE) ● Water Environment Federation
of the Board’s key responsibilities is overseeing the Company’s strategy. The ● Association of Metropolitan Water ● Water Europe
Board has deep knowledge and expertise in this area and regularly discusses Agencies ● Water Environment Federation
our strategic priorities and businesses, believing that oversight of our strategy is ● Australian Water Association ● WateReuse Association
a continuous process. For more information, see “Oversight of Strategy” (p. 20), ● Aqua
and “Commitment to Sustainability” (p. 35) in our 2024 Proxy Statement. ● Europump Social, Governance and Ethics
● European Biogas Association
2-13 Delegation of responsibility for The Board oversees our strategy and management’s approach to risk ● European Water Association ● Business Roundtable, Corporate
managing impacts management and execution of its risk management responsibilities; both ● Hydraulic Institute Governance Committee
strategy and risk management include areas that affect Xylem’s sustainability ● International Society of Sustainability ● HRC Foundation
efforts. Our Board, primarily through its Nominating & Governance Committee, Professionals ● Smart Water Networks Forum
provides oversight of the Company’s approach to sustainability and corporate ● International Water Association ● Society of Corporate Compliance
social responsibility. In addition, our Leadership Development & Compensation ● National Association of Clean Water and Ethics
Committee oversees the Company’s approach to improving diversity, equity, Agencies ● U.S. – India Business Council
and inclusion as well as talent development. The Board and its committees ● Rural Community Assistance ● U.S. – Saudi Business Council
regularly discuss with management our approach to sustainability, including Partnership ● U.S. Water Alliance
risks and opportunities, and implications for the Company’s strategy. See ● Stockholm International Water ● Water Research Foundation
“Commitment to Sustainability” (p. 35) in our 2024 Proxy Statement. Institute
2-14 Role of the highest governance body The Board, primarily through its Nominating & Governance Committee, provides Also see “Commitments” (p. 24), and ”Political engagement” (p. 69-70).
in sustainability reporting oversight of our approach to sustainability reporting. See “Commitment to
Sustainability” (p. 35) in our 2024 Proxy Statement. 2-29 Approach to stakeholder engagement See “Sustainability” (p. 12-14) in our 2023 10-K.
2-15 Conflicts of interest We have a written policy that governs the reporting, review and approval or 2-30 Collective bargaining agreements As of December 31, 2023, we employed around 22,800 people worldwide,
ratification of transactions with related parties. The policy covers, but is not of which about 10,400 were in the Americas, 8,800 in Europe and 3,600 in
limited to, the related party transactions and relationships required to be disclosed Emerging Markets. Around 66% of our employees in Europe are represented by
under SEC rules. The policy supplements our Code of Conduct, which addresses trade unions or works councils and 11% of our employees in the United States
potential conflict-of-interest situations. See “Related party transactions” (p. 24) in are covered by collective bargaining agreements. In some other countries,
our 2024 Proxy Statement. Also see “Conflict of interest” (p. 65). employees are also represented by works councils.
Appendix Xylem 2023 Sustainability Report 78
GRI Content Index – continued
GRI Standard / Other source Response / location GRI Standard / Other source Response / location
Material topics Energy
GRI 3: Material topics 2021 GRI 3: Material topics 2021
3-1 Process to determine material topics Xylem recently conducted a double materiality assessment exercise as part 3-3 Management of material topics As we continue to navigate the integration process with Evoqua, we remain
of the combination with Evoqua and in preparations for upcoming CSRD focused on evaluating synergies and assessing their implications on our
requirements. We intend to conduct an ESRS gap assessment to determine internal management practices concerning material topics, including respective
the detailed disclosure requirements before publishing the detailed results oversight, policies, and commitments. This evaluation will inform updates to our
of the double materiality assessment in future sustainability reports. For reporting on internal management practices moving forward.
more information, see “Double materiality assessment exercise” (p. 20).
GRI 302: Energy 2016
3-2 List of material topics Xylem recently conducted a double materiality assessment exercise as part 302-1 Energy consumption within the See "Energy efficiency and emissions reduction" (p. 30-32).
of the combination with Evoqua and in preparations for upcoming CSRD organization
requirements. We intend to conduct an ESRS gap assessment to determine
the detailed disclosure requirements before publishing the detailed results 302-3 Energy intensity See “Energy efficiency and emissions reduction” (p. 30-32).
of the double materiality assessment in future sustainability reports. For
more information, see “Double materiality assessment exercise” (p. 20). 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption See “Energy efficiency and emissions reduction” (p.30-32).
302-5 Reductions in energy requirements See “Energy efficiency and emissions reduction” (p. 30-32).
Indirect economic impacts
of products and services
GRI 3: Material topics 2021
Water and effluents
3-3 Management of material topics As we continue to navigate the integration process with Evoqua, we remain
focused on evaluating synergies and assessing their implications on our
GRI 3: Material topics 2021
internal management practices concerning material topics, including
respective oversight, policies, and commitments. This evaluation will inform 3-3 Management of material topics As we continue to navigate the integration process with Evoqua, we remain
updates to our reporting on internal management practices moving forward. focused on evaluating synergies and assessing their implications on our
internal management practices concerning material topics, including respective
GRI 203: Indirect economic impacts 2016
oversight, policies, and commitments. This evaluation will inform updates to our
203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts See “Community impact” (p. 56-63). reporting on internal management practices moving forward.
GRI 303: Water and effluents 2018
Procurement practices
303-1 Interactions with water as a See “Water management” (p. 29).
shared resource
GRI 3: Material topics 2021
3-3 Management of material topics As we continue to navigate the integration process with Evoqua, we remain 303-2 Management of water discharge- See “Water management” (p. 29).
focused on evaluating synergies and assessing their implications on our related impacts
internal management practices concerning material topics, including
respective oversight, policies, and commitments. This evaluation will inform 303-4 Water discharge See “Water management” (p. 29).
updates to our reporting on internal management practices moving forward.
303-5 Water consumption See “Water management” (p. 29).
GRI 204: Procurement practices 2016
204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers See “Responsible sourcing” (p. 53-55).
Emissions
Anti-corruption GRI 3: Material topics 2021
3-3 Management of material topics As we continue to navigate the integration process with Evoqua, we remain
GRI 3: Material topics 2021
focused on evaluating synergies and assessing their implications on our
3-3 Management of material topics As we continue to navigate the integration process with Evoqua, we remain internal management practices concerning material topics, including respective
focused on evaluating synergies and assessing their implications on our oversight, policies, and commitments. This evaluation will inform updates to our
internal management practices concerning material topics, including reporting on internal management practices moving forward.
respective oversight, policies, and commitments. This evaluation will inform
GRI 305: Emissions 2016
updates to our reporting on internal management practices moving forward.
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions See “Energy efficiency and emissions reduction" (p. 30-32).
GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016
205-1 Operations assessed for risks related See “Risk management oversight” (p. 20), and “Ethics and compliance” 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) See “Energy efficiency and emissions reduction" (p. 30-32).
to corruption (p. 65-66). GHG emissions
205-2 Communication and training about See “Ethics and compliance” (p. 65-66). 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) See “Energy efficiency and emissions reduction" (p. 30-32).
anti-corruption policies and procedures GHG emissions
205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and A key success metric of our management of ethics and accountability 305-4 GHG emissions intensity See “Energy efficiency and emissions reduction" (p. 30-32).
actions taken is the number of incidents of corruption or anti-competitive behavior. No
material incidents of such activity were confirmed in 2023. 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions See “Energy efficiency and emissions reduction" (p. 30-32).
305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting We do not use significant amounts of ozone-depleting substances, and for that
Anti-competitive behavior
substances (ODS) reason do not track their use. We adhere to the Montreal Protocol, administered by
the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), which maintains the list of
GRI 3: Material topics 2021
ozone-depleting substances that are targeted for reductions and total phase-outs.
3-3 Management of material topics As we continue to navigate the integration process with Evoqua, we remain
focused on evaluating synergies and assessing their implications on our 305-7 Nitrogen Oxides (Nox), Sulfur Oxides See “Energy efficiency and emissions reduction" (p. 33).
internal management practices concerning material topics, including (Sox), and other significant air emissions
respective oversight, policies, and commitments. This evaluation will inform
updates to our reporting on internal management practices moving forward.
Waste
GRI 206: Anti-competitive behavior 2016
GRI 3: Material topics 2021
206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive No material incidents were confirmed in 2023.
behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices 3-3 Management of material topics As we continue to navigate the integration process with Evoqua, we remain
focused on evaluating synergies and assessing their implications on our
internal management practices concerning material topics, including respective
Materials
oversight, policies, and commitments. This evaluation will inform updates to our
reporting on internal management practices moving forward.
GRI 3: Material topics 2021
GRI 306: Waste 2020
3-3 Management of material topics As we continue to navigate the integration process with Evoqua, we remain
focused on evaluating synergies and assessing their implications on our 306-1 Waste generation and significant See ”Waste management” (p. 33).
internal management practices concerning material topics, including waste-related impacts
respective oversight, policies, and commitments. This evaluation will inform In August 2023, an incident occurred in our Bridgeport, NJ facility involving
updates to our reporting on internal management practices moving forward. a spill related to on-site activities. Approximately 100 gallons of diesel fuel
leaked from an operating pump, with some of it entering a nearby lagoon. Upon
GRI 301: Materials 2016
discovery, immediate actions were taken, including notifying local authorities
301-3 Reclaimed products and their See ”Waste management” (p. 33). and engaging emergency response teams. The fire department and contractors
packaging materials hired by Xylem promptly cleaned up the spill.
Also see our remediation activities in “Environmental Regulations” in the
2023 10-K Form (p.12).
306-2 Management of significant See ”Waste management” (p. 33).
waste-related impacts
Also see our remediation activities in “Environmental Regulations”
in the 2023 10-K Form (p.12).
306-3 Waste generated See ”Waste management” (p. 33).
306-4 Waste diverted from disposal See ”Waste management” (p. 33).
306-5 Waste directed to disposal See ”Waste management” (p. 33).
Appendix Xylem 2023 Sustainability Report 79
GRI Content Index – continued
GRI Standard / Other source Response / location GRI Standard / Other source Response / location
Supplier environmental assessment
Occupational health and safety – continued
GRI 3: Material topics 2021
403-3 Occupational health services Our Occupational Health and Safety strategy centers around prevention,
3-3 Management of material topics As we continue to navigate the integration process with Evoqua, we remain emphasizing proactive measures aimed at risk prevention, early intervention,
focused on evaluating synergies and assessing their implications on our and continuous improvement, and extends to every facet of our operations,
internal management practices concerning material topics, including including promoting employees’ physical and mental well-being. Our
respective oversight, policies, and commitments. This evaluation will inform comprehensive health and safety training programs equip employees to identify
updates to our reporting on internal management practices moving forward. and mitigate workplace hazards. We also offer resources such as health
screenings, counseling, and stress management workshops, ensuring access
GRI 308: Supplier environmental assessment 2016
to comprehensive support services for our employees.
308-1 New suppliers that were screened See ”Supplier audits and risk management” (p. 53).
using environmental criteria 403-4 Worker participation, consultation, We believe safety is a collective responsibility and prioritizes active worker
and communication on occupational participation in our occupational health and safety management system. Our
health and safety mechanisms include regular safety meetings, toolbox talks, concern reporting,
Employment
and safety committees, where employees contribute insights and collaborate
on solutions. These committees, comprised of both management and workers,
GRI 3: Material topics 2021
meet regularly to discuss occupational health and safety matters, review safety
3-3 Management of material topics As we continue to navigate the integration process with Evoqua, we remain performance, and propose improvements to actively shape occupational health
focused on evaluating synergies and assessing their implications on our and safety policies and procedures. Additionally, our communication channels such
internal management practices concerning material topics, including as ongoing training, email updates, signage, and safety bulletins provide readily
respective oversight, policies, and commitments. This evaluation will inform accessible information for all employees.
updates to our reporting on internal management practices moving forward.
403-5 Worker training on occupational See “Health and safety training” (p. 51).
GRI 401: Employment 2016
health and safety
401-1 New employee hires and Voluntary employee turnover rate in 2023: 8.5%
employee turnover 403-6 Promotion of worker health See “Health and safety training” (p. 51), “WASH access for employees”
(p. 52), and ”Employee benefits” (p. 43-44).
401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees Our total rewards include comprehensive programs for compensation,
that are not provided to temporary or part-time benefits, recognition, learning and development, work-life integration, and 403-7 Prevention and mitigation of See “Contractor safety management” (p. 52), and “Product safety” (p. 37).
employees corporate citizenship. Individual program components may differ by country, occupational health and safety impacts
by location and/or by role. In the United States, where we closely monitor and directly linked by business relationships
analyze data related to these benefits, employees who work 30 or more hours
per week are eligible for competitive benefits, including comprehensive health 403-9 Work-related injuries See “Safety performance” (p. 51), and ”Datasheet” (p. 76).
and wellness programs, telemedicine, disability and life insurances, paid time
off, flexible work arrangements, employee assistance programs, adoption
Training and education
assistance and other offerings. Temporary or less-than-full-time employees
are eligible for pro-rated paid time off and our retirement program after
GRI 3: Material topics 2021
completing either 1,000 hours of service in a calendar year or 500 hours during
each of three consecutive 12-month periods (only hours worked on or after 3-3 Management of material topics As we continue to navigate the integration process with Evoqua, we remain
January 1, 2023 count for eligibility purposes). Outside of the United States, focused on evaluating synergies and assessing their implications on our
the definition of full-time, temporary, or part-time employees can vary, as well internal management practices concerning material topics, including respective
as the differentiated benefits that may be provided in that given country. oversight, policies, and commitments. This evaluation will inform updates to our
reporting on internal management practices moving forward.
401-3 Parental leave See “Parental leave” (p. 43-44).
GRI 404: Training and education 2016
404-1 Average hours of training per year We recorded 16.75 formal learning hours per employee in 2023.
Labor/management relations
per employee
GRI 3: Material topics 2021
404-2 Programs for upgrading employee See ”Developing a talent pipeline” (p. 42), and “Further diversifying our
3-3 Management of material topics As we continue to navigate the integration process with Evoqua, we remain skills and transition assistance programs workforce – Programs" (p. 47).
f ocused on evaluating synergies and assessing their implications on our
internal management practices concerning material topics, including
Diversity and equal opportunity
respective oversight, policies, and commitments. This evaluation will inform
updates to our reporting on internal management practices moving forward.
GRI 3: Material topics 2021
GRI 402: Labor/management relations 2016
3-3 Management of material topics As we continue to navigate the integration process with Evoqua, we remain
402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding Exceptional circumstances, Under the European Works focused on evaluating synergies and assessing their implications on our
operational changes including operational change Council, additional information internal management practices concerning material topics, including respective
or other planned measures or and consultation applies to the oversight, policies, and commitments. This evaluation will inform updates to our
activities based on unexpected following matters: reporting on internal management practices moving forward.
developments and affecting
GRI 405: Diversity and equal opportunity 2016
the interests of the employees ● Structure of Xylem and its
to a considerable extent are economic and financial situation, 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies See ”DEI in numbers” (p. 45-46), and “Board diversity” (p. 46).
communicated and minimum ● Anticipated development of the and employees
notice periods given according business, including its production
to our various union, collective and sales levels,
Supplier social assessment
bargaining, and work council ● Employment situation and its
agreements. Topics requiring anticipated development that are
GRI 3: Material topics 2021
notice include: significant, including organizational
changes, 3-3 Management of material topics As we continue to navigate the integration process with Evoqua, we remain
● Mergers or splitting of companies ● Significant EHS, Ethics and focused on evaluating synergies and assessing their implications on our
or production facilities Compliance matters, internal management practices concerning material topics, including respective
● Relocation of companies, ● Investment priorities in the oversight, policies, and commitments. This evaluation will inform updates to our
production facilities (or significant business, reporting on internal management practices moving forward.
parts thereof), and relocation of ● Introduction of new working and
GRI 414: Supplier social assessment 2016
production production procedures.
● Cut-back or closure of companies, 414-1 New suppliers that were screened See ”Human rights in our supply chain” (p. 39).
production facilities (or significant using social criteria
parts thereof), and
● Collective redundancies.
Customer health and safety
Occupational health and safety GRI 3: Material topics 2021
3-3 Management of material topics As we continue to navigate the integration process with Evoqua, we remain
GRI 3: Material topics 2021
focused on evaluating synergies and assessing their implications on our
3-3 Management of material topics As we continue to navigate the integration process with Evoqua, we remain internal management practices concerning material topics, including respective
focused on evaluating synergies and assessing their implications on our oversight, policies, and commitments. This evaluation will inform updates to our
internal management practices concerning material topics, including reporting on internal management practices moving forward.
respective oversight, policies, and commitments. This evaluation will inform
GRI 416: Customer health and safety 2016
updates to our reporting on internal management practices moving forward.
416-1 Assessment of the health and See “Product safety” (p. 37).
GRI 403: Occupational health and safety 2018
safety impacts of products and services
403-1 Occupational health and safety Xylem holds itself to the high standards required to meet the International
management system Organization for Standardization (ISO), and Occupational Health and Safety 416-2 Incidents of noncompliance See “Product safety” (p. 37).
Assessment Series (OHSAS) certification. 11 of our global manufacturing concerning the health and safety impacts
facilities and one office and 11 sales facilities are OHSAS 18001 certified for of products and services
health and safety management. See more information in "Health and safety"
(p. 51-52).
403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment Our facilities track safety performance according to the number of OSHA
and incident investigation recordables per site, the injury frequency rate per 100 employees, a near
miss incident rate, number of fatalities, and the Risk Reduction Index (RRI).
Appendix Xylem 2023 Sustainability Report 80
SASB World Economic Forum Sustainable
Value Creation Core Metrics and Disclosures
Company-specific (non GRI) disclosures
Principles Core metrics and disclosures Sources
Strategic partnerships Governance
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of material topics As we continue to navigate the integration process with Evoqua, Governing Setting purpose GRI 2-12
topics 2021 we remain focused on evaluating synergies and assessing their purpose The company’s stated purpose, as the expression of the means by which a business
implications on our internal management practices concerning material proposes solutions to economic, environmental and social issues. Corporate purpose
topics, including respective oversight, policies, and commitments. This should create value for all stakeholders, including shareholders.
evaluation will inform updates to our reporting on internal management
practices moving forward. Quality of Governance body composition GRI 2-9
governing body Composition of the highest governance body and its committees by: competencies GRI 405-1a
SASB IF WU 440a.3 Discussion of strategies to See “Community impact” (p. 56-63). relating to economic, environmental and social topics; executive or non-executive; 2024 Proxy
manage risks associated with the independence; tenure on the governance body; number of each individual’s other Statement
quality and availability of water significant positions and commitments, and the nature of the commitments; gender;
membership of under-represented social groups; stakeholder representation.
Climate change
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of material topics As we continue to navigate the integration process with Evoqua, Stakeholder Material issues impacting stakeholders GRI 2-12
topics 2021 we remain focused on evaluating synergies and assessing their engagement A list of the topics that are material to key stakeholders and the company, how the GRI 2-29
implications on our internal management practices concerning material topics were identified and how the stakeholders were engaged. GRI 3-2
topics, including respective oversight, policies, and commitments. This
evaluation will inform updates to our reporting on internal management Ethical behavior Anti-corruption GRI 205-2
practices moving forward. 1. Total percentage of employees who have received training on the organization’s GRI 205-3
anti-corruption policies and procedures Code of Conduct
SASB IF WU 450a.4 Description of efforts to See "Impact on the environment" (p. 26-37). 2. Discussion of initiatives and stakeholder engagement to improve the broader
identify and manage risks and operating environment and culture, in order to combat corruption.
opportunities related to the
impact of climate change Protected ethics advice and reporting mechanisms GRI 2-26
A description of internal and external mechanisms for: Code of Conduct
Business transformation
1. Seeking advice about ethical and lawful behaviour and organizational integrity;
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of material topics As we continue to navigate the integration process with Evoqua, and
topics 2021 we remain focused on evaluating synergies and assessing their 2. Reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behaviour and lack of
implications on our internal management practices concerning material organizational integrity.
topics, including respective oversight, policies, and commitments. This
evaluation will inform updates to our reporting on internal management Risk and Integrating risk and opportunity into business process N/A
practices moving forward. opportunity Company risk factor and opportunity disclosures that clearly identify the principal
material risks and opportunities facing the company specifically (as opposed to
Connected products (e.g., data security, privacy and intellectual property protection)
generic sector risks), the company appetite in respect of these risks, how these
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of material topics See “Intellectual property” (p. 68). risks and opportunities have moved over time and the response to those changes.
topics 2021 These opportunities and risks should integrate material economic, environmental
and social issues, including climate change and data stewardship.
SASB IF WU TC0401 15 Number of patent See “Intellectual property” (p. 68).
Planet
litigation cases, number successful,
and number as patent holder Climate change Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions GRI 305:1-3
For all relevant greenhouse gases (e.g. carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide,
Company- Number of patents and/or As we continue to navigate the integration process with Evoqua, F-gases etc.), report in metric tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (tCO e) GHG
2
specific trademarks filed/pending/ we remain focused on evaluating synergies and assessing their Protocol Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions.
disclosure awarded/rejected implications on our internal management practices concerning material Estimate and report material upstream and downstream (GHG Protocol Scope 3)
topics, including respective oversight, policies, and commitments. This emissions where appropriate.
evaluation will inform updates to our reporting on internal management
practices moving forward. TCFD implementation GRI 305-3
Fully implement the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related TCFD report
Connected products (e.g., data security, privacy and intellectual property protection)
Financial Disclosures (TCFD). If necessary, disclose a timeline of at most three
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of material topics As we continue to navigate the integration process with Evoqua, years for full implementation. Disclose whether you have set, or have committed to
topics 2021 we remain focused on evaluating synergies and assessing their set, GHG emissions targets that are in line with the goals of the Paris Agreement
implications on our internal management practices concerning material – to limit global warming to well below 2°C above pre-industrial levels and pursue
topics, including respective oversight, policies, and commitments. This efforts to limit warming to 1.5°C – and to achieve net-zero emissions before 2050.
evaluation will inform updates to our reporting on internal management
practices moving forward. Freshwater Water consumption and withdrawal in water-stressed areas GRI 303-5
availability Report for operations where material: megalitres of water withdrawn, megalitres of
SASB IF WU 420a.2 Customer water savings from See “Product sustainability” (p. 36-37). water consumed and the percentage of each in regions with high or extremely high
efficiency measures, by market baseline water stress, according to WRI Aqueduct water risk atlas tool.
People
Dignity and Diversity and inclusion (%) GRI 405-1b
Additional SASB Metrics
equality Percentage of employees per employee category, by age group, gender and other
indicators of diversity (e.g. ethnicity).
SASB Index – Industrial Machinery & Goods- Accounting Metrics
Wage level (%) GRI 2-21, 2024
Topic SASB Code Accounting Metric Category Unit of Measure 2023 Response
Ratio of the annual total compensation of the CEO to the median of the annual total Proxy Statement
Energy RT-IG-130a.1 (1) Total energy consumption Quantitative Gigajoules (GJ) (1) 1,947,620 compensation of all its employees, except the CEO. (p. 64)
management (2) Percentage grid electricity (2) 35%
(3) Percentage renewable energy (3) 28% Risks for incidents of child, forced or compulsory labour GRI 408-1b, GRI
An explanation of the operations and suppliers considered to have significant risk 409-1, Modern
Employee RT-IG-320a.1 (1) Total recordable incident rate (TRIR) Quantitative Percentage (1) 0.61 for incidents of child labour, forced or compulsory labour. Slavery Statement
health & (2) Fatality rate (%) Rate (2) 0.00
safety (3) Near miss frequency rate (3) 10.20 Health and well Health & safety (%) GRI 403-9a&b
being The number and rate of fatalities as a result of work-related injury; high- GRI 403-6a
Materials RT-IG-440a.1 Description of the management of Discussion n/a Please see “Conflict consequence work-related injuries (excluding fatalities); recordable work-related
sourcing risks associated with the use of critical and analysis minerals management” injuries; main types of work-related injury; and the number of hours worked.
materials (p. 54), and our
Conflict Mineral Policy Skills for the Training provided (#) GRI 404-1
Statement. future Average hours of training per person that the organization’s employees have
undertaken during the reporting period (total number of hours of training provided
to employees divided by the number of employees).
Prosperity
Employment Absolute number and rate of employment GRI 401-1A&B
and wealth 1. Total number and rate of new employee hires during the reporting period.
generation 2. Total number and rate of employee turnover during the reporting period.
Economic contribution U.S. GAAP
Direct economic value generated and distributed (EVG&D), on an accruals basis, 2023 Xylem
covering the basic components for the organization’s global operations, ideally split 10-K, Results of
out by: operations (p. 42)
– Revenues
– Operating costs
2023 Xylem 10-K,
Financial investment contribution Capital expenditures
1. Total capital expenditures (CapEx) minus depreciation, supported by narrative to (p. 41), Liquidity and
describe the company’s investment strategy. capital resources
2. Share buybacks plus dividend payments, supported by narrative to describe the (p. 53)
company’s strategy for returns of capital to shareholders.
Innovation of Total R&D expenses ($) 2023 Xylem 10-K,
better products Total costs related to research and development. Operating expenses
and services (p. 46)
Appendix Xylem 2023 Sustainability Report 81
United Nations Global Compact Principles
Human rights
Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the Human rights | Modern Slavery Statement | Human Rights
protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Statement | Code of Conduct | Business Partner Code of Conduct
Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in Human rights | Modern Slavery Statement | Human Rights
human rights abuses. Statement | Code of Conduct | Business Partner Code of Conduct
Labor
Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of Employee representation
association and the effective recognition of the right to
collective bargaining;
Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and Human rights | Modern Slavery Statement | Human Rights
compulsory labor; Statement | Code of Conduct | Business Partner Code of Conduct
Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Human rights | Modern Slavery Statement | Human Rights
Statement
Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect to Human rights | Talent management | Diversity, equity, and inclusion
employment and occupation. | Code of Conduct | Business Partner Code of Conduct
Environment
Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary Sustainability at Xylem | Impact on the environment | TCFD report
approach to environmental challenges;
Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater Sustainability at Xylem | Impact on the environment | Our business |
environmental responsibility; Innovation | Political engagement | Climate Action Plan
Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of Sustainability at Xylem | Product sustainability | Our business |
environmentally friendly technologies. Innovation
Anti-corruption
Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption Ethics and compliance | Code of Conduct | Business Partner Code
in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. of Conduct
82
Assurance
© Vladimir Dolgikh (Xylem)
Assurance Xylem 2023 Sustainability Report 83
(cid:3) (cid:3)
(cid:1) (cid:50)(cid:36)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:19)(cid:32)(cid:43)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:47)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:33)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:40)(cid:28)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:47)(cid:28)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:34)(cid:1)(cid:32)(cid:33)(cid:33)(cid:32)(cid:30)(cid:47)(cid:36)(cid:49)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:41)(cid:28)(cid:39)(cid:1)(cid:30)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:47)(cid:45)(cid:42)(cid:39)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:42)(cid:49)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:46)(cid:52)(cid:46)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:40)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:33)(cid:45)(cid:42)(cid:40)(cid:1)(cid:50)(cid:35)(cid:36)(cid:30)(cid:35)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:19)(cid:32)(cid:43)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:47)(cid:1)(cid:36)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:31)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:36)(cid:49)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1141)(cid:1)(cid:1)
(cid:22)(cid:39)(cid:47)(cid:36)(cid:40)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:39)(cid:52)(cid:1142)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:19)(cid:32)(cid:43)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:47)(cid:1)(cid:35)(cid:28)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:29)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:43)(cid:43)(cid:45)(cid:42)(cid:49)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:29)(cid:52)(cid:1142)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:40)(cid:28)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:46)(cid:43)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:46)(cid:36)(cid:29)(cid:36)(cid:39)(cid:36)(cid:47)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:42)(cid:33)(cid:1)(cid:25)(cid:52)(cid:39)(cid:32)(cid:40)(cid:1141)(cid:1)
(cid:13)(cid:19)(cid:18)(cid:2)(cid:1)(cid:10)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:32)(cid:43)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:47)(cid:1)(cid:2)(cid:46)(cid:46)(cid:48)(cid:45)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:30)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:20)(cid:47)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:40)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:47)(cid:1)
(cid:1)
LRQA’s Opinion(cid:1)
(cid:19)(cid:32)(cid:39)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:34)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:42)(cid:1)(cid:25)(cid:52)(cid:39)(cid:32)(cid:40)(cid:1142)(cid:1)(cid:10)(cid:41)(cid:30)(cid:1141)(cid:1)(cid:6)(cid:41)(cid:49)(cid:36)(cid:45)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:40)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:47)(cid:28)(cid:39)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:20)(cid:42)(cid:30)(cid:36)(cid:28)(cid:39)(cid:1)(cid:14)(cid:32)(cid:47)(cid:45)(cid:36)(cid:30)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:33)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:4)(cid:28)(cid:39)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:28)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:26)(cid:32)(cid:28)(cid:45)(cid:1) Based on LRQA’s approach nothing has come to our attention that would cause us to believe that (cid:25)(cid:52)(cid:39)(cid:32)(cid:40) (cid:35)(cid:28)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:41)(cid:42)(cid:47)(cid:1142)(cid:1)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:1)
(cid:40)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:36)(cid:28)(cid:39)(cid:1)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:46)(cid:43)(cid:32)(cid:30)(cid:47)(cid:46)(cid:1143)(cid:1)
(cid:1089)(cid:1087)(cid:1089)(cid:1090)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:7)(cid:42)(cid:48)(cid:45)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:1)(cid:18)(cid:48)(cid:28)(cid:45)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:4)(cid:28)(cid:39)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:28)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:26)(cid:32)(cid:28)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:1089)(cid:1087)(cid:1089)(cid:1089)(cid:1)
• (cid:14)(cid:32)(cid:47)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:44)(cid:48)(cid:36)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:40)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:47)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:42)(cid:33)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:30)(cid:45)(cid:36)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:36)(cid:28)(cid:1)(cid:39)(cid:36)(cid:46)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:29)(cid:42)(cid:49)(cid:32)(cid:1144)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)
(cid:1) • (cid:5)(cid:36)(cid:46)(cid:30)(cid:39)(cid:42)(cid:46)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:30)(cid:30)(cid:48)(cid:45)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:39)(cid:36)(cid:28)(cid:29)(cid:39)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:43)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:33)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:40)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:30)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:31)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:28)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:33)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:40)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:36)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:46)(cid:48)(cid:40)(cid:40)(cid:28)(cid:45)(cid:36)(cid:53)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:1)(cid:21)(cid:28)(cid:29)(cid:39)(cid:32)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:1088)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:1089)(cid:1)(cid:29)(cid:32)(cid:39)(cid:42)(cid:50)(cid:1141)(cid:1)
(cid:21)(cid:35)(cid:36)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:2)(cid:46)(cid:46)(cid:48)(cid:45)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:30)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:20)(cid:47)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:40)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:47)(cid:1)(cid:35)(cid:28)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:29)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:1)(cid:43)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:43)(cid:28)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:33)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:25)(cid:52)(cid:39)(cid:32)(cid:40)(cid:1142)(cid:1)(cid:10)(cid:41)(cid:30)(cid:1141)(cid:1)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:30)(cid:30)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:31)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:30)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:50)(cid:36)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:1)(cid:42)(cid:48)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:30)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:47)(cid:45)(cid:28)(cid:30)(cid:47)(cid:1141)(cid:1)(cid:1)
(cid:21)(cid:35)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:42)(cid:43)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:36)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:1)(cid:32)(cid:51)(cid:43)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:46)(cid:46)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:36)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:33)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:40)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:29)(cid:28)(cid:46)(cid:36)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:42)(cid:33)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:1)(cid:39)(cid:36)(cid:40)(cid:36)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:39)(cid:32)(cid:49)(cid:32)(cid:39)(cid:1)(cid:42)(cid:33)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:46)(cid:46)(cid:48)(cid:45)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:30)(cid:32)(cid:1089)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:40)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:36)(cid:28)(cid:39)(cid:36)(cid:47)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:42)(cid:33)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:43)(cid:45)(cid:42)(cid:33)(cid:32)(cid:46)(cid:46)(cid:36)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:28)(cid:39)(cid:1)
(cid:1)
(cid:37)(cid:48)(cid:31)(cid:34)(cid:32)(cid:40)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:47)(cid:1)(cid:42)(cid:33)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:49)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:36)(cid:33)(cid:36)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:1141)(cid:1)(cid:1)
(cid:21)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:40)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:42)(cid:33)(cid:1)(cid:6)(cid:41)(cid:34)(cid:28)(cid:34)(cid:32)(cid:40)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:47)(cid:1)
(cid:13)(cid:19)(cid:18)(cid:2)(cid:1)(cid:50)(cid:28)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:30)(cid:42)(cid:40)(cid:40)(cid:36)(cid:46)(cid:46)(cid:36)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:29)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:25)(cid:52)(cid:39)(cid:32)(cid:40)(cid:1142)(cid:1)(cid:10)(cid:41)(cid:30)(cid:1141)(cid:1)(cid:1175)(cid:25)(cid:52)(cid:39)(cid:32)(cid:40)(cid:1176)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:42)(cid:1)(cid:43)(cid:45)(cid:42)(cid:49)(cid:36)(cid:31)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:32)(cid:43)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:47)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:46)(cid:46)(cid:48)(cid:45)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:30)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:1)(cid:36)(cid:47)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:34)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:35)(cid:42)(cid:48)(cid:46)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:34)(cid:28)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:1175)(cid:8)(cid:9)(cid:8)(cid:1176)(cid:1) (cid:1)
(cid:6)(cid:40)(cid:36)(cid:46)(cid:46)(cid:36)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:46)(cid:1142)(cid:1)(cid:6)(cid:41)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:34)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:22)(cid:46)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:10)(cid:41)(cid:49)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:47)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:36)(cid:32)(cid:46)(cid:1142)(cid:1)(cid:24)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:24)(cid:36)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:31)(cid:45)(cid:28)(cid:50)(cid:41)(cid:1)(cid:10)(cid:41)(cid:49)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:47)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:36)(cid:32)(cid:46)(cid:1142)(cid:1)(cid:24)(cid:28)(cid:46)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:10)(cid:41)(cid:49)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:47)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:36)(cid:32)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:10)(cid:41)(cid:37)(cid:48)(cid:45)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:1086)(cid:1)(cid:10)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:41)(cid:32)(cid:46)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:40)(cid:32)(cid:47)(cid:45)(cid:36)(cid:30)(cid:46)(cid:1)(“the (cid:21)(cid:28)(cid:29)(cid:39)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:1088)(cid:1141)(cid:1)(cid:20)(cid:48)(cid:40)(cid:40)(cid:28)(cid:45)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:42)(cid:33)(cid:1)(cid:25)(cid:52)(cid:39)(cid:32)(cid:40)(cid:1)(cid:12)(cid:32)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:5)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:28)(cid:1)(cid:33)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:4)(cid:28)(cid:39)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:28)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:26)(cid:32)(cid:28)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:1089)(cid:1087)(cid:1089)(cid:1090)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:39)(cid:32)(cid:34)(cid:28)(cid:30)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:6)(cid:49)(cid:42)(cid:44)(cid:48)(cid:28)(cid:1)(cid:1091)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:1)(cid:18)(cid:48)(cid:28)(cid:45)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:1089)(cid:1087)(cid:1089)(cid:1089)(cid:1143)(cid:1)(cid:1)
Report”)(cid:1)(cid:33)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:4)(cid:28)(cid:39)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:28)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:26)(cid:32)(cid:28)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:1089)(cid:1087)(cid:1089)(cid:1090)(cid:1142)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:33)(cid:42)(cid:48)(cid:45)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:1)(cid:44)(cid:48)(cid:28)(cid:45)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:1089)(cid:1087)(cid:1089)(cid:1089)(cid:1142)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:34)(cid:28)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:46)(cid:47)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:46)(cid:46)(cid:48)(cid:45)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:30)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:30)(cid:45)(cid:36)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:36)(cid:28)(cid:1)(cid:29)(cid:32)(cid:39)(cid:42)(cid:50)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:42)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:1)(cid:39)(cid:36)(cid:40)(cid:36)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:39)(cid:32)(cid:49)(cid:32)(cid:39)(cid:1)(cid:42)(cid:33)(cid:1)
(cid:28)(cid:46)(cid:46)(cid:48)(cid:45)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:30)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:48)(cid:46)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:34)(cid:1)LRQA’s verification procedure and ISO 14064 (cid:1162)(cid:1)(cid:17)(cid:28)(cid:45)(cid:47)(cid:1)(cid:1090)(cid:1)(cid:33)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:34)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:35)(cid:42)(cid:48)(cid:46)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:34)(cid:28)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:31)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:28)(cid:1141)(cid:1)(cid:13)RQA’s verification (cid:13)(cid:32)(cid:34)(cid:28)(cid:30)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:25)(cid:52)(cid:39)(cid:32)(cid:40)(cid:1) (cid:13)(cid:32)(cid:34)(cid:28)(cid:30)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:6)(cid:49)(cid:42)(cid:44)(cid:48)(cid:28)(cid:1) (cid:13)(cid:32)(cid:34)(cid:28)(cid:30)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:6)(cid:49)(cid:42)(cid:44)(cid:48)(cid:28)(cid:1)
(cid:20)(cid:30)(cid:42)(cid:43)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:42)(cid:33)(cid:1)(cid:8)(cid:9)(cid:8)(cid:1)(cid:32)(cid:40)(cid:36)(cid:46)(cid:46)(cid:36)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:1)
(cid:43)(cid:45)(cid:42)(cid:30)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:48)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:36)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:29)(cid:28)(cid:46)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:1)(cid:30)(cid:48)(cid:45)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:47)(cid:1)(cid:29)(cid:32)(cid:46)(cid:47)(cid:1)(cid:43)(cid:45)(cid:28)(cid:30)(cid:47)(cid:36)(cid:46)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:36)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:30)(cid:30)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:31)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:30)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:50)(cid:36)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:1)(cid:10)(cid:20)(cid:2)(cid:6)(cid:1)(cid:1090)(cid:1087)(cid:1087)(cid:1087)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:10)(cid:20)(cid:2)(cid:6)(cid:1)(cid:1090)(cid:1091)(cid:1088)(cid:1087)(cid:1141)(cid:1) (cid:1089)(cid:1087)(cid:1089)(cid:1090)(cid:1) (cid:1089)(cid:1087)(cid:1089)(cid:1090)(cid:1)(cid:1) (cid:1091)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:1)(cid:18)(cid:48)(cid:28)(cid:45)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:1)
(cid:21)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:41)(cid:32)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:4)(cid:16)(cid:32)(cid:1)
(cid:1) (cid:1089) (cid:1) (cid:1089)(cid:1087)(cid:1089)(cid:1089)(cid:1)(cid:1)
(cid:16)(cid:48)(cid:45)(cid:1) (cid:28)(cid:46)(cid:46)(cid:48)(cid:45)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:30)(cid:32)(cid:1) (cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:34)(cid:28)(cid:34)(cid:32)(cid:40)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:47)(cid:1) (cid:30)(cid:42)(cid:49)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1) Xylem’s (cid:42)(cid:43)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:36)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:46)(cid:1) (cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1) (cid:28)(cid:30)(cid:47)(cid:36)(cid:49)(cid:36)(cid:47)(cid:36)(cid:32)(cid:46)(cid:1) (cid:34)(cid:39)(cid:42)(cid:29)(cid:28)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:52)(cid:1) (cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1) (cid:46)(cid:43)(cid:32)(cid:30)(cid:36)(cid:33)(cid:36)(cid:30)(cid:28)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:52)(cid:1) (cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:32)(cid:1) (cid:33)(cid:42)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:42)(cid:50)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:34)(cid:1) (cid:20)(cid:30)(cid:42)(cid:43)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:1088)(cid:1)(cid:8)(cid:9)(cid:8)(cid:1)(cid:32)(cid:40)(cid:36)(cid:46)(cid:46)(cid:36)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:46)(cid:1) (cid:1090)(cid:1094)(cid:1142)(cid:1089)(cid:1089)(cid:1092)(cid:1) (cid:1090)(cid:1095)(cid:1142)(cid:1096)(cid:1096)(cid:1093)(cid:1) (cid:1088)(cid:1088)(cid:1142)(cid:1087)(cid:1089)(cid:1092)(cid:1)
(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:44)(cid:48)(cid:36)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:40)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:47)(cid:46)(cid:1143)(cid:1)
(cid:20)(cid:30)(cid:42)(cid:43)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:1089)(cid:1)(cid:8)(cid:9)(cid:8)(cid:1)(cid:32)(cid:40)(cid:36)(cid:46)(cid:46)(cid:36)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:1175)(cid:13)(cid:42)(cid:30)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:36)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:1162)(cid:29)(cid:28)(cid:46)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1176)(cid:1088)(cid:1) (cid:1091)(cid:1087)(cid:1142)(cid:1092)(cid:1088)(cid:1094)(cid:1) (cid:1088)(cid:1089)(cid:1142)(cid:1088)(cid:1095)(cid:1094)(cid:1) (cid:1090)(cid:1142)(cid:1089)(cid:1088)(cid:1092)(cid:1)
• (cid:23)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:36)(cid:33)(cid:52)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:34)(cid:1)(cid:30)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:33)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:40)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:30)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:50)(cid:36)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:1143)(cid:1)
• (cid:25)(cid:52)(cid:39)(cid:32)(cid:40)(cid:1)(cid:6)(cid:9)(cid:20)(cid:20)(cid:1)(cid:14)(cid:32)(cid:47)(cid:45)(cid:36)(cid:30)(cid:1)(cid:19)(cid:32)(cid:43)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:47)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:34)(cid:1)(cid:6)(cid:9)(cid:20)(cid:1162)(cid:1087)(cid:1088)(cid:1141)(cid:1088)(cid:1092)(cid:1)(cid:6)(cid:33)(cid:33)(cid:32)(cid:30)(cid:47)(cid:36)(cid:49)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:1089)(cid:1181)(cid:1088)(cid:1087)(cid:1181)(cid:1089)(cid:1087)(cid:1089)(cid:1090)(cid:1144)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1) (cid:20)(cid:30)(cid:42)(cid:43)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:1089)(cid:1)(cid:8)(cid:9)(cid:8)(cid:1)(cid:32)(cid:40)(cid:36)(cid:46)(cid:46)(cid:36)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:1175)(cid:14)(cid:28)(cid:45)(cid:38)(cid:32)(cid:47)(cid:1162)(cid:29)(cid:28)(cid:46)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1176)(cid:1088) (cid:1092)(cid:1142)(cid:1092)(cid:1095)(cid:1092)(cid:1) (cid:1088)(cid:1089)(cid:1142)(cid:1093)(cid:1095)(cid:1094)(cid:1) (cid:1090)(cid:1142)(cid:1090)(cid:1092)(cid:1093)(cid:1)
• (cid:24)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:39)(cid:31)(cid:1) (cid:19)(cid:32)(cid:46)(cid:42)(cid:48)(cid:45)(cid:30)(cid:32)(cid:46)(cid:1) (cid:10)(cid:41)(cid:46)(cid:47)(cid:36)(cid:47)(cid:48)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:1) (cid:1181)(cid:1) (cid:24)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:39)(cid:31)(cid:1) (cid:3)(cid:48)(cid:46)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:32)(cid:46)(cid:46)(cid:1) (cid:4)(cid:42)(cid:48)(cid:41)(cid:30)(cid:36)(cid:39)(cid:1) (cid:33)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:1) (cid:20)(cid:48)(cid:46)(cid:47)(cid:28)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:28)(cid:29)(cid:39)(cid:32)(cid:1) (cid:5)(cid:32)(cid:49)(cid:32)(cid:39)(cid:42)(cid:43)(cid:40)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:47)(cid:1) (cid:8)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:35)(cid:42)(cid:48)(cid:46)(cid:32)(cid:1) (cid:8)(cid:28)(cid:46)(cid:1) (cid:13)(cid:32)(cid:34)(cid:28)(cid:30)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:25)(cid:52)(cid:39)(cid:32)(cid:40)(cid:1) (cid:13)(cid:32)(cid:34)(cid:28)(cid:30)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:6)(cid:49)(cid:42)(cid:44)(cid:48)(cid:28)(cid:1)(cid:1) (cid:13)(cid:32)(cid:34)(cid:28)(cid:30)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:6)(cid:49)(cid:42)(cid:44)(cid:48)(cid:28)(cid:1)(cid:1)
(cid:20)(cid:30)(cid:42)(cid:43)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:42)(cid:33)(cid:1)(cid:6)(cid:41)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:34)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:22)(cid:46)(cid:32)(cid:1)
(cid:17)(cid:45)(cid:42)(cid:47)(cid:42)(cid:30)(cid:42)(cid:39)(cid:1143)(cid:1)(cid:2)(cid:1)(cid:30)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:43)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:30)(cid:30)(cid:42)(cid:48)(cid:41)(cid:47)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:34)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:43)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:47)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:34)(cid:1)(cid:46)(cid:47)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:28)(cid:45)(cid:31)(cid:1142)(cid:1)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:49)(cid:36)(cid:46)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:36)(cid:47)(cid:36)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:1)(cid:1175)(cid:42)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:50)(cid:36)(cid:46)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:33)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:42)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:32)(cid:1) (cid:1089)(cid:1087)(cid:1089)(cid:1090)(cid:1) (cid:1089)(cid:1087)(cid:1089)(cid:1090)(cid:1)(cid:1) (cid:1091)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:1)(cid:18)(cid:48)(cid:28)(cid:45)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:1)
(cid:14)(cid:32)(cid:34)(cid:28)(cid:50)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:47)(cid:1)(cid:35)(cid:42)(cid:48)(cid:45)(cid:46)(cid:1)
(cid:24)(cid:19)(cid:10)(cid:1181)(cid:24)(cid:3)(cid:4)(cid:20)(cid:5)(cid:1)(cid:17)(cid:45)(cid:42)(cid:47)(cid:42)(cid:30)(cid:42)(cid:39)(cid:1176)(cid:1)(cid:33)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:8)(cid:9)(cid:8)(cid:1)(cid:31)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:28)(cid:1088)(cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1089)(cid:1087)(cid:1089)(cid:1089)(cid:1)(cid:1)
• (cid:6)(cid:49)(cid:28)(cid:39)(cid:48)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:34)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:30)(cid:30)(cid:48)(cid:45)(cid:28)(cid:30)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:39)(cid:36)(cid:28)(cid:29)(cid:36)(cid:39)(cid:36)(cid:47)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:42)(cid:33)(cid:1)(cid:31)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:28)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:33)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:40)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:36)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:1)(cid:33)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:46)(cid:32)(cid:39)(cid:32)(cid:30)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:36)(cid:30)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:39)(cid:36)(cid:46)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:29)(cid:32)(cid:39)(cid:42)(cid:50)(cid:1143)(cid:1)(cid:1)
(cid:21)(cid:42)(cid:47)(cid:28)(cid:39)(cid:1)(cid:6)(cid:41)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:34)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:22)(cid:46)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:1175)(cid:31)(cid:36)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:30)(cid:47)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:36)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:30)(cid:47)(cid:1176)(cid:1) (cid:1090)(cid:1090)(cid:1092)(cid:1142)(cid:1096)(cid:1090)(cid:1093)(cid:1) (cid:1089)(cid:1087)(cid:1092)(cid:1142)(cid:1087)(cid:1094)(cid:1088)(cid:1) (cid:1092)(cid:1095)(cid:1142)(cid:1096)(cid:1087)(cid:1093)(cid:1)
• (cid:5)(cid:36)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:30)(cid:47)(cid:1)(cid:1175)(cid:20)(cid:30)(cid:42)(cid:43)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:1088)(cid:1176)(cid:1142)(cid:1)(cid:6)(cid:41)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:34)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:10)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:36)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:30)(cid:47)(cid:1)(cid:1175)(cid:20)(cid:30)(cid:42)(cid:43)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:1089)(cid:1176)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:16)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:10)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:36)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:30)(cid:47)(cid:1)(cid:1175)(cid:20)(cid:30)(cid:42)(cid:43)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:1090)(cid:1176)(cid:1)(cid:8)(cid:9)(cid:8)(cid:1)(cid:32)(cid:40)(cid:36)(cid:46)(cid:46)(cid:36)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:46)(cid:1144)(cid:1)
(cid:13)(cid:32)(cid:34)(cid:28)(cid:30)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:25)(cid:52)(cid:39)(cid:32)(cid:40)(cid:1) (cid:13)(cid:32)(cid:34)(cid:28)(cid:30)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:6)(cid:49)(cid:42)(cid:44)(cid:48)(cid:28)(cid:1)(cid:1) (cid:13)(cid:32)(cid:34)(cid:28)(cid:30)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:6)(cid:49)(cid:42)(cid:44)(cid:48)(cid:28)(cid:1)(cid:1)
▪ (cid:20)(cid:30)(cid:42)(cid:43)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:1090)(cid:1)(cid:8)(cid:9)(cid:8)(cid:1)(cid:32)(cid:40)(cid:36)(cid:46)(cid:46)(cid:36)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:49)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:36)(cid:33)(cid:36)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:29)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:13)(cid:19)(cid:18)(cid:2)(cid:1)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:30)(cid:39)(cid:48)(cid:31)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:33)(cid:42)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:42)(cid:50)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:34)(cid:1143)(cid:1)(cid:43)(cid:48)(cid:45)(cid:30)(cid:35)(cid:28)(cid:46)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:34)(cid:42)(cid:42)(cid:31)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:46)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:49)(cid:36)(cid:30)(cid:32)(cid:46)(cid:1142)(cid:1) (cid:20)(cid:30)(cid:42)(cid:43)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:42)(cid:33)(cid:1)(cid:24)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:24)(cid:36)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:31)(cid:45)(cid:28)(cid:50)(cid:41)(cid:1)(cid:10)(cid:41)(cid:49)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:47)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:1)
(cid:1089)(cid:1087)(cid:1089)(cid:1090)(cid:1) (cid:1089)(cid:1087)(cid:1089)(cid:1090)(cid:1)(cid:1) (cid:1091)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:1)(cid:18)(cid:48)(cid:28)(cid:45)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:1)
(cid:50)(cid:28)(cid:46)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:34)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:29)(cid:48)(cid:46)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:32)(cid:46)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:45)(cid:28)(cid:49)(cid:32)(cid:39)(cid:1)(cid:32)(cid:40)(cid:36)(cid:46)(cid:46)(cid:36)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:46)(cid:1144)(cid:1) (cid:14)(cid:32)(cid:34)(cid:28)(cid:1)(cid:13)(cid:36)(cid:47)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:46)(cid:1)
(cid:1) (cid:1089)(cid:1087)(cid:1089)(cid:1089)(cid:1)(cid:1)
• (cid:6)(cid:41)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:34)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:48)(cid:46)(cid:32)(cid:1144)(cid:1)
(cid:8)(cid:39)(cid:42)(cid:29)(cid:28)(cid:39)(cid:1)(cid:24)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:22)(cid:46)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:1175)(cid:46)(cid:48)(cid:45)(cid:33)(cid:28)(cid:30)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:50)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:1090)(cid:1142)(cid:1)(cid:34)(cid:45)(cid:42)(cid:48)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)
• (cid:24)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:24)(cid:36)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:31)(cid:45)(cid:28)(cid:50)(cid:41)(cid:1)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:49)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:47)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:1175)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:30)(cid:39)(cid:48)(cid:31)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:34)(cid:1)(cid:46)(cid:48)(cid:45)(cid:33)(cid:28)(cid:30)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:50)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:1142)(cid:1)(cid:34)(cid:45)(cid:42)(cid:48)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:50)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:36)(cid:45)(cid:31)(cid:1162)(cid:43)(cid:28)(cid:45)(cid:47)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:50)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:1176)(cid:1144)(cid:1) (cid:1089)(cid:1096)(cid:1094)(cid:1141)(cid:1088)(cid:1) (cid:1089)(cid:1142)(cid:1089)(cid:1092)(cid:1096)(cid:1141)(cid:1091)(cid:1) (cid:1092)(cid:1091)(cid:1095)(cid:1141)(cid:1092)(cid:1)
(cid:50)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:36)(cid:45)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:43)(cid:28)(cid:45)(cid:47)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:43)(cid:45)(cid:42)(cid:49)(cid:36)(cid:31)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:50)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:1176)(cid:1)
• (cid:24)(cid:28)(cid:46)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:8)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:49)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:47)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:1175)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:30)(cid:39)(cid:48)(cid:31)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:34)(cid:1)(cid:35)(cid:28)(cid:53)(cid:28)(cid:45)(cid:31)(cid:42)(cid:48)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:41)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:1162)(cid:35)(cid:28)(cid:53)(cid:28)(cid:45)(cid:31)(cid:42)(cid:48)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:50)(cid:28)(cid:46)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:1176)(cid:1144)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)
• (cid:10)(cid:41)(cid:37)(cid:48)(cid:45)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:10)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:41)(cid:32)(cid:46)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:40)(cid:32)(cid:47)(cid:45)(cid:36)(cid:30)(cid:46)(cid:1143)(cid:1)(cid:21)(cid:42)(cid:47)(cid:28)(cid:39)(cid:1)(cid:19)(cid:32)(cid:30)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:31)(cid:28)(cid:29)(cid:39)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:19)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:1142)(cid:1)(cid:5)(cid:28)(cid:52)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:2)(cid:50)(cid:28)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:33)(cid:45)(cid:42)(cid:40)(cid:1)(cid:24)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:38)(cid:1)(cid:19)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:20)(cid:32)(cid:49)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:36)(cid:47)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:19)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:1141)(cid:1) (cid:13)(cid:32)(cid:34)(cid:28)(cid:30)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:25)(cid:52)(cid:39)(cid:32)(cid:40)(cid:1) (cid:13)(cid:32)(cid:34)(cid:28)(cid:30)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:6)(cid:49)(cid:42)(cid:44)(cid:48)(cid:28)(cid:1)(cid:1) (cid:13)(cid:32)(cid:34)(cid:28)(cid:30)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:6)(cid:49)(cid:42)(cid:44)(cid:48)(cid:28)(cid:1)(cid:1)
(cid:20)(cid:30)(cid:42)(cid:43)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:42)(cid:33)(cid:1)(cid:24)(cid:28)(cid:46)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:8)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:10)(cid:41)(cid:49)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:47)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:1)
(cid:1) (cid:1089)(cid:1087)(cid:1089)(cid:1090)(cid:1) (cid:1089)(cid:1087)(cid:1089)(cid:1090)(cid:1)(cid:1) (cid:1091)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:1)(cid:18)(cid:48)(cid:28)(cid:45)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:1)
(cid:21)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:41)(cid:32)(cid:46)(cid:1)
(cid:25)(cid:52)(cid:39)(cid:32)(cid:40)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:30)(cid:44)(cid:48)(cid:36)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:6)(cid:49)(cid:42)(cid:44)(cid:48)(cid:28)(cid:1)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:1)(cid:1089)(cid:1087)(cid:1089)(cid:1090)(cid:1141)(cid:1)(cid:1)(cid:17)(cid:45)(cid:42)(cid:30)(cid:32)(cid:46)(cid:46)(cid:32)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:33)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:30)(cid:42)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:32)(cid:30)(cid:47)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:34)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:30)(cid:28)(cid:39)(cid:30)(cid:48)(cid:39)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:34)(cid:1)(cid:30)(cid:28)(cid:39)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:28)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:52)(cid:32)(cid:28)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:1089)(cid:1087)(cid:1089)(cid:1090)(cid:1)(cid:20)(cid:30)(cid:42)(cid:43)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:1088)(cid:1)(cid:32)(cid:40)(cid:36)(cid:46)(cid:46)(cid:36)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1089)(cid:1087)(cid:1089)(cid:1089)(cid:1)(cid:1)
(cid:20)(cid:30)(cid:42)(cid:43)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:1089)(cid:1)(cid:32)(cid:40)(cid:36)(cid:46)(cid:46)(cid:36)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:42)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:6)(cid:9)(cid:20)(cid:1)(cid:31)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:28)(cid:1)(cid:50)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:46)(cid:32)(cid:43)(cid:28)(cid:45)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:33)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:29)(cid:42)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:1)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:34)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:36)(cid:53)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:36)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:46)(cid:1141)(cid:1)(cid:1)(cid:13)(cid:19)(cid:18)(cid:2)(cid:1)(cid:49)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:36)(cid:33)(cid:36)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:31)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:28)(cid:1)(cid:33)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:29)(cid:42)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:1)(cid:39)(cid:32)(cid:34)(cid:28)(cid:30)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:25)(cid:52)(cid:39)(cid:32)(cid:40)(cid:1) (cid:8)(cid:39)(cid:42)(cid:29)(cid:28)(cid:39)(cid:1)(cid:24)(cid:28)(cid:46)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:8)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:1175)(cid:35)(cid:28)(cid:53)(cid:28)(cid:45)(cid:31)(cid:42)(cid:48)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)
(cid:1090)(cid:1095)(cid:1142)(cid:1096)(cid:1094)(cid:1091)(cid:1) (cid:1088)(cid:1094)(cid:1142)(cid:1091)(cid:1090)(cid:1089)(cid:1) (cid:1091)(cid:1142)(cid:1091)(cid:1087)(cid:1087)(cid:1)
(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:39)(cid:32)(cid:34)(cid:28)(cid:30)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:6)(cid:49)(cid:42)(cid:44)(cid:48)(cid:28)(cid:1)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:32)(cid:43)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:47)(cid:39)(cid:52)(cid:1141)(cid:1)(cid:1)(cid:20)(cid:30)(cid:42)(cid:43)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:1090)(cid:1)(cid:32)(cid:40)(cid:36)(cid:46)(cid:46)(cid:36)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:50)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:30)(cid:42)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:32)(cid:30)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:30)(cid:28)(cid:39)(cid:30)(cid:48)(cid:39)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:30)(cid:42)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:32)(cid:30)(cid:47)(cid:36)(cid:49)(cid:32)(cid:39)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:33)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:29)(cid:42)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:1)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:34)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:36)(cid:53)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:36)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:46)(cid:1) (cid:41)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:1162)(cid:35)(cid:28)(cid:53)(cid:28)(cid:45)(cid:31)(cid:42)(cid:48)(cid:46)(cid:1176)(cid:1)
(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:30)(cid:39)(cid:48)(cid:46)(cid:36)(cid:49)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:42)(cid:33)(cid:1)(cid:29)(cid:42)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:1)(cid:39)(cid:32)(cid:34)(cid:28)(cid:30)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:25)(cid:52)(cid:39)(cid:32)(cid:40)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:6)(cid:49)(cid:42)(cid:44)(cid:48)(cid:28)(cid:1)(cid:33)(cid:28)(cid:30)(cid:36)(cid:39)(cid:36)(cid:47)(cid:36)(cid:32)(cid:46)(cid:1141)(cid:1)(cid:1)(cid:21)(cid:35)(cid:36)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:36)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:30)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:46)(cid:36)(cid:46)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:47)(cid:1)(cid:50)(cid:36)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:1)(cid:25)(cid:52)(cid:39)(cid:32)(cid:40)(cid:1)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:43)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:47)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:34)(cid:1)(cid:32)(cid:51)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:41)(cid:28)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:52)(cid:1141)(cid:1)(cid:1)(cid:1)
(cid:1) 2 (cid:21)(cid:35)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:32)(cid:51)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:47)(cid:1)(cid:42)(cid:33)(cid:1)(cid:32)(cid:49)(cid:36)(cid:31)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:30)(cid:32)(cid:1162)(cid:34)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:34)(cid:1)(cid:33)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:1)(cid:39)(cid:36)(cid:40)(cid:36)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:46)(cid:46)(cid:48)(cid:45)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:30)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:34)(cid:28)(cid:34)(cid:32)(cid:40)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:47)(cid:1)(cid:36)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:39)(cid:32)(cid:46)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:1)(cid:33)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:1)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:28)(cid:46)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:28)(cid:29)(cid:39)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:46)(cid:46)(cid:48)(cid:45)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:30)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:34)(cid:28)(cid:34)(cid:32)(cid:40)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:47)(cid:1141)(cid:1)(cid:1)(cid:13)(cid:36)(cid:40)(cid:36)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1)
(cid:6)(cid:51)(cid:30)(cid:32)(cid:43)(cid:47)(cid:1)(cid:33)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:20)(cid:30)(cid:42)(cid:43)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:1090)(cid:1)(cid:30)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:34)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:36)(cid:32)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:40)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:47)(cid:36)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:29)(cid:42)(cid:49)(cid:32)(cid:1142)(cid:1)(cid:42)(cid:48)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:46)(cid:46)(cid:48)(cid:45)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:30)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:34)(cid:28)(cid:34)(cid:32)(cid:40)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:47)(cid:1)(cid:32)(cid:51)(cid:30)(cid:39)(cid:48)(cid:31)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:31)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:28)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:33)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:40)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:36)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:1)(cid:42)(cid:33)(cid:1) (cid:28)(cid:46)(cid:46)(cid:48)(cid:45)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:30)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:34)(cid:28)(cid:34)(cid:32)(cid:40)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:47)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:33)(cid:42)(cid:30)(cid:48)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:34)(cid:34)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:34)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:31)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:28)(cid:1)(cid:45)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:1)(cid:43)(cid:35)(cid:52)(cid:46)(cid:36)(cid:30)(cid:28)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:30)(cid:35)(cid:32)(cid:30)(cid:38)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:34)(cid:1)(cid:46)(cid:42)(cid:48)(cid:45)(cid:30)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:31)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:28)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:1)(cid:46)(cid:36)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:46)(cid:1141)(cid:1)(cid:1)(cid:4)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:46)(cid:32)(cid:44)(cid:48)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:47)(cid:39)(cid:52)(cid:1142)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:39)(cid:32)(cid:49)(cid:32)(cid:39)(cid:1)(cid:42)(cid:33)(cid:1)
(cid:25)(cid:52)(cid:39)(cid:32)(cid:40)’(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:46)(cid:48)(cid:43)(cid:43)(cid:39)(cid:36)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:46)(cid:1142)(cid:1)(cid:30)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:47)(cid:45)(cid:28)(cid:30)(cid:47)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:36)(cid:45)(cid:31)(cid:1162)(cid:43)(cid:28)(cid:45)(cid:47)(cid:36)(cid:32)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:40)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:47)(cid:36)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:43)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:47)(cid:1141)(cid:1)(cid:1)(cid:10)(cid:47)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:39)(cid:46)(cid:42)(cid:1)(cid:32)(cid:51)(cid:30)(cid:39)(cid:48)(cid:31)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:39)(cid:32)(cid:34)(cid:28)(cid:30)(cid:52)(cid:1)Evoqua’s "Small (cid:28)(cid:46)(cid:46)(cid:48)(cid:45)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:30)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:42)(cid:29)(cid:47)(cid:28)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:1)(cid:39)(cid:36)(cid:40)(cid:36)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:46)(cid:46)(cid:48)(cid:45)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:30)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:34)(cid:28)(cid:34)(cid:32)(cid:40)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:47)(cid:1)(cid:36)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:39)(cid:42)(cid:50)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:46)(cid:46)(cid:48)(cid:45)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:30)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:1)(cid:50)(cid:42)(cid:48)(cid:39)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:35)(cid:28)(cid:49)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:29)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:1)(cid:42)(cid:29)(cid:47)(cid:28)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:35)(cid:28)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:1)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:28)(cid:46)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:28)(cid:29)(cid:39)(cid:32)(cid:1)
(cid:20)(cid:36)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:46)(cid:1151)(cid:1)(cid:50)(cid:35)(cid:36)(cid:30)(cid:35)(cid:1)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:30)(cid:39)(cid:48)(cid:31)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:1088)(cid:1088)(cid:1087)(cid:1)(cid:46)(cid:36)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:31)(cid:32)(cid:33)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:32)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:46)(cid:48)(cid:30)(cid:35)(cid:1)(cid:43)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:33)(cid:42)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:42)(cid:50)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:34)(cid:1)(cid:30)(cid:45)(cid:36)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:36)(cid:28)(cid:1143)(cid:1)(cid:46)(cid:40)(cid:28)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:1)(cid:29)(cid:45)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:30)(cid:35)(cid:32)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:50)(cid:36)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:42)(cid:48)(cid:47)(cid:1)(cid:41)(cid:42)(cid:47)(cid:28)(cid:29)(cid:39)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:35)(cid:32)(cid:28)(cid:31)(cid:30)(cid:42)(cid:48)(cid:41)(cid:47)(cid:1142)(cid:1)(cid:41)(cid:42)(cid:1)
(cid:28)(cid:46)(cid:46)(cid:48)(cid:45)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:30)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:34)(cid:28)(cid:34)(cid:32)(cid:40)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:47)(cid:1)(cid:29)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:1)(cid:43)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:33)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:40)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1141)(cid:1)(cid:1)
(cid:40)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:48)(cid:33)(cid:28)(cid:30)(cid:47)(cid:48)(cid:45)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:34)(cid:1181)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:48)(cid:46)(cid:47)(cid:45)(cid:36)(cid:28)(cid:39)(cid:1)(cid:43)(cid:45)(cid:42)(cid:30)(cid:32)(cid:46)(cid:46)(cid:32)(cid:46)(cid:1142)(cid:1)(cid:41)(cid:42)(cid:1)(cid:40)(cid:28)(cid:37)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:50)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:48)(cid:46)(cid:28)(cid:34)(cid:32)(cid:1142)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:41)(cid:42)(cid:1)(cid:40)(cid:28)(cid:37)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:50)(cid:28)(cid:46)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:34)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:36)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:1141)(cid:1)
(cid:1090)(cid:1)(cid:6)(cid:49)(cid:42)(cid:44)(cid:48)(cid:28)(cid:1)(cid:31)(cid:42)(cid:32)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:41)(cid:42)(cid:47)(cid:1)(cid:48)(cid:46)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:46)(cid:48)(cid:45)(cid:33)(cid:28)(cid:30)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:50)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:1141)(cid:1)(cid:1)
(cid:1)
LRQA’s responsibility is only to (cid:25)(cid:52)(cid:39)(cid:32)(cid:40)(cid:1141)(cid:1)(cid:13)(cid:19)(cid:18)(cid:2)(cid:1)(cid:31)(cid:36)(cid:46)(cid:30)(cid:39)(cid:28)(cid:36)(cid:40)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:39)(cid:36)(cid:28)(cid:29)(cid:36)(cid:39)(cid:36)(cid:47)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:46)(cid:43)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:46)(cid:36)(cid:29)(cid:36)(cid:39)(cid:36)(cid:47)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:42)(cid:1)(cid:42)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:32)(cid:51)(cid:43)(cid:39)(cid:28)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)
(cid:33)(cid:42)(cid:42)(cid:47)(cid:41)(cid:42)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:1141)(cid:1)(cid:25)(cid:52)(cid:39)(cid:32)(cid:40)’s(cid:1)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:46)(cid:43)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:46)(cid:36)(cid:29)(cid:36)(cid:39)(cid:36)(cid:47)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:36)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:33)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:30)(cid:42)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:32)(cid:30)(cid:47)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:34)(cid:1142)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:34)(cid:34)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:34)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:34)(cid:1142)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:28)(cid:39)(cid:52)(cid:46)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:34)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:43)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:46)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:47)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:34)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:31)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:28)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:33)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:40)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:36)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:1)
1 http://www.ghgprotocol.org/
(cid:856)(cid:3) (cid:856)(cid:3)
(cid:3) (cid:87)(cid:258)(cid:336)(cid:286)(cid:3)(cid:1005)(cid:3)(cid:381)(cid:296)(cid:3)(cid:1008)(cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:87)(cid:258)(cid:336)(cid:286)(cid:3)(cid:1006)(cid:3)(cid:381)(cid:296)(cid:3)(cid:1008)(cid:3) (cid:3)
Assurance Xylem 2023 Sustainability Report 84
(cid:3) (cid:3)
(cid:20)(cid:30)(cid:42)(cid:43)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:42)(cid:33)(cid:1)(cid:10)(cid:41)(cid:37)(cid:48)(cid:45)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:10)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:41)(cid:32)(cid:46)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:14)(cid:32)(cid:47)(cid:45)(cid:36)(cid:30)(cid:46)(cid:1) (cid:13)(cid:32)(cid:34)(cid:28)(cid:30)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:25)(cid:52)(cid:39)(cid:32)(cid:40)(cid:1) (cid:13)(cid:32)(cid:34)(cid:28)(cid:30)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:6)(cid:49)(cid:42)(cid:44)(cid:48)(cid:28)(cid:1)(cid:1) (cid:13)(cid:32)(cid:34)(cid:28)(cid:30)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:6)(cid:49)(cid:42)(cid:44)(cid:48)(cid:28)(cid:1)(cid:1) (cid:1)
(cid:17)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:1089)(cid:1087)(cid:1087)(cid:1142)(cid:1087)(cid:1087)(cid:1087)(cid:1)(cid:50)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:38)(cid:1)(cid:35)(cid:42)(cid:48)(cid:45)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:1175)(cid:1088)(cid:1087)(cid:1087)(cid:1) (cid:1089)(cid:1087)(cid:1089)(cid:1090)(cid:1) (cid:1089)(cid:1087)(cid:1089)(cid:1090)(cid:1)(cid:1) (cid:1091)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:1)(cid:18)(cid:48)(cid:28)(cid:45)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:1) LRQA’s (cid:20)(cid:47)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:28)(cid:45)(cid:31)(cid:46)(cid:1142)(cid:1)(cid:4)(cid:42)(cid:40)(cid:43)(cid:32)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:30)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:10)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:32)(cid:43)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:30)(cid:32)(cid:1)
(cid:32)(cid:40)(cid:43)(cid:39)(cid:42)(cid:52)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:46)(cid:1176)(cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1089)(cid:1087)(cid:1089)(cid:1089)(cid:1)(cid:1) (cid:13)(cid:19)(cid:18)(cid:2)(cid:1)(cid:36)(cid:40)(cid:43)(cid:39)(cid:32)(cid:40)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:47)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:40)(cid:28)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:47)(cid:28)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:1)(cid:30)(cid:42)(cid:40)(cid:43)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:35)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:46)(cid:36)(cid:49)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:40)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:28)(cid:34)(cid:32)(cid:40)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:47)(cid:1)(cid:46)(cid:52)(cid:46)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:40)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:1)(cid:40)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:47)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:30)(cid:30)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:36)(cid:47)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:36)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:1)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:44)(cid:48)(cid:36)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:40)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:47)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:33)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:10)(cid:20)(cid:16)(cid:1)
(cid:10)(cid:41)(cid:37)(cid:48)(cid:45)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:10)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:41)(cid:32)(cid:46)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:19)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:1175)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:30)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:31)(cid:28)(cid:29)(cid:39)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:37)(cid:48)(cid:45)(cid:52)(cid:1) (cid:1088)(cid:1091)(cid:1087)(cid:1093)(cid:1092)(cid:1)(cid:8)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:35)(cid:42)(cid:48)(cid:46)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:34)(cid:28)(cid:46)(cid:32)(cid:46)(cid:1)–(cid:1)(cid:19)(cid:32)(cid:44)(cid:48)(cid:36)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:40)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:47)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:33)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:34)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:35)(cid:42)(cid:48)(cid:46)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:34)(cid:28)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:49)(cid:28)(cid:39)(cid:36)(cid:31)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:36)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:49)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:36)(cid:33)(cid:36)(cid:30)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:36)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:1)(cid:29)(cid:42)(cid:31)(cid:36)(cid:32)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:33)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:48)(cid:46)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:30)(cid:30)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:36)(cid:47)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:36)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:1)
(cid:36)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:41)(cid:32)(cid:46)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:30)(cid:28)(cid:46)(cid:32)(cid:46)(cid:1185)(cid:1089)(cid:1087)(cid:1087)(cid:1142)(cid:1087)(cid:1087)(cid:1087)(cid:1)(cid:35)(cid:42)(cid:48)(cid:45)(cid:46)(cid:1181)(cid:50)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:38)(cid:1)(cid:35)(cid:42)(cid:48)(cid:45)(cid:46)(cid:1176)(cid:1) (cid:1087)(cid:1141)(cid:1092)(cid:1091)(cid:1)(cid:1) (cid:1087)(cid:1141)(cid:1095)(cid:1092)(cid:1) (cid:1087)(cid:1141)(cid:1093)(cid:1087)(cid:1) (cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:42)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:33)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:40)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:42)(cid:33)(cid:1)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:30)(cid:42)(cid:34)(cid:41)(cid:36)(cid:47)(cid:36)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:10)(cid:20)(cid:16)(cid:1181)(cid:10)(cid:6)(cid:4)(cid:1)(cid:1088)(cid:1094)(cid:1087)(cid:1089)(cid:1088)(cid:1)(cid:4)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:33)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:40)(cid:36)(cid:47)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:46)(cid:46)(cid:32)(cid:46)(cid:46)(cid:40)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:47)(cid:1)–(cid:1)(cid:19)(cid:32)(cid:44)(cid:48)(cid:36)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:40)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:47)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:33)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:29)(cid:42)(cid:31)(cid:36)(cid:32)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:43)(cid:45)(cid:42)(cid:49)(cid:36)(cid:31)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:34)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:48)(cid:31)(cid:36)(cid:47)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)
(cid:30)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:47)(cid:36)(cid:33)(cid:36)(cid:30)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:36)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:1)(cid:42)(cid:33)(cid:1)(cid:40)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:28)(cid:34)(cid:32)(cid:40)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:47)(cid:1)(cid:46)(cid:52)(cid:46)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:40)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:1)(cid:39)(cid:32)(cid:28)(cid:46)(cid:47)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:31)(cid:32)(cid:40)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:34)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:44)(cid:48)(cid:36)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:40)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:47)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:42)(cid:33)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:10)(cid:41)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:41)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:36)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:28)(cid:39)(cid:1)(cid:20)(cid:47)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:28)(cid:45)(cid:31)(cid:1)
(cid:5)(cid:28)(cid:52)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:2)(cid:50)(cid:28)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:33)(cid:45)(cid:42)(cid:40)(cid:1)(cid:24)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:38)(cid:1)(cid:19)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:1175)(cid:31)(cid:28)(cid:52)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:50)(cid:28)(cid:52)(cid:1)
(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:1)(cid:18)(cid:48)(cid:28)(cid:39)(cid:36)(cid:47)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:4)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:47)(cid:45)(cid:42)(cid:39)(cid:1)(cid:1088)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:30)(cid:42)(cid:40)(cid:43)(cid:39)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:50)(cid:36)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:4)(cid:42)(cid:31)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:42)(cid:33)(cid:1)(cid:6)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:36)(cid:30)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:33)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:17)(cid:45)(cid:42)(cid:33)(cid:32)(cid:46)(cid:46)(cid:36)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:28)(cid:39)(cid:1)(cid:2)(cid:30)(cid:30)(cid:42)(cid:48)(cid:41)(cid:47)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:47)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:36)(cid:46)(cid:46)(cid:48)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:29)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:10)(cid:41)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:41)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:36)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:28)(cid:39)(cid:1)(cid:6)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:36)(cid:30)(cid:46)(cid:1)
(cid:33)(cid:45)(cid:42)(cid:40)(cid:1)(cid:50)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:38)(cid:1)(cid:30)(cid:28)(cid:46)(cid:32)(cid:46)(cid:1185)(cid:1089)(cid:1087)(cid:1087)(cid:1142)(cid:1087)(cid:1087)(cid:1087)(cid:1)(cid:35)(cid:42)(cid:48)(cid:45)(cid:46)(cid:1181)(cid:50)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:38)(cid:1) (cid:1087)(cid:1141)(cid:1090)(cid:1090)(cid:1) (cid:1087)(cid:1141)(cid:1090)(cid:1091)(cid:1) (cid:1087)(cid:1)
(cid:20)(cid:47)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:28)(cid:45)(cid:31)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:3)(cid:42)(cid:28)(cid:45)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:33)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:2)(cid:30)(cid:30)(cid:42)(cid:48)(cid:41)(cid:47)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:47)(cid:46)(cid:1141)(cid:1)
(cid:35)(cid:42)(cid:48)(cid:45)(cid:46)(cid:1)
(cid:1)
(cid:20)(cid:32)(cid:49)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:36)(cid:47)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:19)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:1175)(cid:31)(cid:28)(cid:52)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:50)(cid:28)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:33)(cid:45)(cid:42)(cid:40)(cid:1) (cid:13)(cid:19)(cid:18)(cid:2)(cid:1)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:46)(cid:48)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:46)(cid:32)(cid:39)(cid:32)(cid:30)(cid:47)(cid:36)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:1)(cid:42)(cid:33)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:43)(cid:43)(cid:45)(cid:42)(cid:43)(cid:45)(cid:36)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:39)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:44)(cid:48)(cid:28)(cid:39)(cid:36)(cid:33)(cid:36)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:36)(cid:49)(cid:36)(cid:31)(cid:48)(cid:28)(cid:39)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:29)(cid:28)(cid:46)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:32)(cid:36)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:44)(cid:48)(cid:28)(cid:39)(cid:36)(cid:33)(cid:36)(cid:30)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:36)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:46)(cid:1142)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:45)(cid:28)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:34)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:32)(cid:51)(cid:43)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:36)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:30)(cid:32)(cid:1141)(cid:1)
(cid:1088)(cid:1096)(cid:1141)(cid:1089)(cid:1) (cid:1091)(cid:1141)(cid:1087)(cid:1092)(cid:1) (cid:1087)(cid:1)
(cid:50)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:38)(cid:31)(cid:28)(cid:52)(cid:46)(cid:1185)(cid:1089)(cid:1087)(cid:1087)(cid:1142)(cid:1087)(cid:1087)(cid:1087)(cid:1)(cid:35)(cid:42)(cid:48)(cid:45)(cid:46)(cid:1181)(cid:50)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:38)(cid:1)(cid:35)(cid:42)(cid:48)(cid:45)(cid:46)(cid:1176)(cid:1) (cid:21)(cid:35)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:42)(cid:48)(cid:47)(cid:30)(cid:42)(cid:40)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:42)(cid:33)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:1)(cid:49)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:36)(cid:33)(cid:36)(cid:30)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:36)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:30)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:47)(cid:36)(cid:33)(cid:36)(cid:30)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:36)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:46)(cid:46)(cid:32)(cid:46)(cid:46)(cid:40)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:47)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:36)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:1)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:41)(cid:28)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:49)(cid:36)(cid:32)(cid:50)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:29)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:46)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:36)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:40)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:28)(cid:34)(cid:32)(cid:40)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:47)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:42)(cid:1)
(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:46)(cid:48)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:43)(cid:43)(cid:45)(cid:42)(cid:28)(cid:30)(cid:35)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:43)(cid:43)(cid:39)(cid:36)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:36)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:45)(cid:36)(cid:34)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:42)(cid:48)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:45)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:46)(cid:43)(cid:28)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:47)(cid:1141)(cid:1)
(cid:15)(cid:42)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:1091)(cid:1143)(cid:1)(cid:1)(cid:20)(cid:30)(cid:42)(cid:43)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:1089)(cid:1142)(cid:1)(cid:13)(cid:42)(cid:30)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:36)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:1162)(cid:29)(cid:28)(cid:46)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:20)(cid:30)(cid:42)(cid:43)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:1089)(cid:1142)(cid:1)(cid:14)(cid:28)(cid:45)(cid:38)(cid:32)(cid:47)(cid:1162)(cid:29)(cid:28)(cid:46)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:31)(cid:32)(cid:33)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:8)(cid:9)(cid:8)(cid:1)(cid:17)(cid:45)(cid:42)(cid:47)(cid:42)(cid:30)(cid:42)(cid:39)(cid:1)(cid:20)(cid:30)(cid:42)(cid:43)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:1089)(cid:1)(cid:8)(cid:48)(cid:36)(cid:31)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:30)(cid:32)(cid:1142)(cid:1)(cid:1089)(cid:1087)(cid:1088)(cid:1092)(cid:1141)(cid:1)
(cid:1)
(cid:15)(cid:42)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:1092)(cid:1143)(cid:1) (cid:25)(cid:52)(cid:39)(cid:32)(cid:40)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:30)(cid:44)(cid:48)(cid:36)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:6)(cid:49)(cid:42)(cid:44)(cid:48)(cid:28)(cid:1)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:1)(cid:1089)(cid:1087)(cid:1089)(cid:1090)(cid:1141)(cid:1)(cid:1)(cid:7)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:4)(cid:26)(cid:1)(cid:1089)(cid:1087)(cid:1089)(cid:1090)(cid:1)(cid:25)(cid:52)(cid:39)(cid:32)(cid:40)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:6)(cid:49)(cid:42)(cid:44)(cid:48)(cid:28)(cid:1)(cid:30)(cid:42)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:32)(cid:30)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1142)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:30)(cid:28)(cid:39)(cid:30)(cid:48)(cid:39)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:20)(cid:30)(cid:42)(cid:43)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:1088)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:1089)(cid:1)(cid:32)(cid:40)(cid:36)(cid:46)(cid:46)(cid:36)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:46)(cid:1)
(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:42)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:6)(cid:9)(cid:20)(cid:1)(cid:31)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:28)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:45)(cid:42)(cid:48)(cid:34)(cid:35)(cid:1)(cid:46)(cid:32)(cid:43)(cid:28)(cid:45)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:43)(cid:45)(cid:42)(cid:30)(cid:32)(cid:46)(cid:46)(cid:32)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:43)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:46)(cid:32)(cid:43)(cid:28)(cid:45)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:39)(cid:52)(cid:1141)(cid:1)(cid:1)(cid:7)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:20)(cid:30)(cid:42)(cid:43)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:1090)(cid:1)(cid:32)(cid:40)(cid:36)(cid:46)(cid:46)(cid:36)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:31)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:28)(cid:1)(cid:36)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:30)(cid:42)(cid:40)(cid:29)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:33)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:29)(cid:42)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:1) (cid:1)
(cid:39)(cid:32)(cid:34)(cid:28)(cid:30)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:25)(cid:52)(cid:39)(cid:32)(cid:40)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:6)(cid:49)(cid:42)(cid:44)(cid:48)(cid:28)(cid:1)(cid:33)(cid:28)(cid:30)(cid:36)(cid:39)(cid:36)(cid:47)(cid:36)(cid:32)(cid:46)(cid:1141)(cid:1)(cid:1)(cid:1) (cid:20)(cid:36)(cid:34)(cid:41)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:1)(cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:5)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1143)(cid:1)(cid:14)(cid:28)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:1088)(cid:1094)(cid:1142)(cid:1)(cid:1089)(cid:1087)(cid:1089)(cid:1091)(cid:1)
(cid:1)
(cid:21)(cid:28)(cid:29)(cid:39)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:1089)(cid:1141)(cid:1)(cid:20)(cid:48)(cid:40)(cid:40)(cid:28)(cid:45)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:42)(cid:33)(cid:1)(cid:4)(cid:42)(cid:40)(cid:29)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:25)(cid:52)(cid:39)(cid:32)(cid:40)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:6)(cid:49)(cid:42)(cid:44)(cid:48)(cid:28)(cid:1)(cid:20)(cid:30)(cid:42)(cid:43)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:1090)(cid:1)(cid:8)(cid:9)(cid:8)(cid:1)(cid:6)(cid:40)(cid:36)(cid:46)(cid:46)(cid:36)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:33)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:4)(cid:28)(cid:39)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:28)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:26)(cid:32)(cid:28)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:1089)(cid:1087)(cid:1089)(cid:1090)(cid:1)
(cid:1)
(cid:20)(cid:30)(cid:42)(cid:43)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:42)(cid:33)(cid:1)(cid:8)(cid:9)(cid:8)(cid:1)(cid:32)(cid:40)(cid:36)(cid:46)(cid:46)(cid:36)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:1)
(cid:4)(cid:42)(cid:40)(cid:43)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:21)(cid:42)(cid:47)(cid:28)(cid:39)(cid:1) (cid:2)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:28)(cid:1)(cid:14)(cid:1141)(cid:1)(cid:3)(cid:42)(cid:30)(cid:38)(cid:45)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:1)
(cid:14)(cid:32)(cid:47)(cid:45)(cid:36)(cid:30)(cid:1)(cid:21)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:4)(cid:16)(cid:32)(cid:1)
(cid:1089) (cid:13)(cid:19)(cid:18)(cid:2)(cid:1)(cid:13)(cid:32)(cid:28)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:23)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:36)(cid:33)(cid:36)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1) (cid:1)
(cid:20)(cid:30)(cid:42)(cid:43)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:1090)(cid:1)(cid:8)(cid:9)(cid:8)(cid:1)(cid:32)(cid:40)(cid:36)(cid:46)(cid:46)(cid:36)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:4)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:34)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:1088)(cid:1143)(cid:1)(cid:17)(cid:48)(cid:45)(cid:30)(cid:35)(cid:28)(cid:46)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:8)(cid:42)(cid:42)(cid:31)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:20)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:49)(cid:36)(cid:30)(cid:32)(cid:46)(cid:1088) (cid:1095)(cid:1093)(cid:1096)(cid:1142)(cid:1087)(cid:1089)(cid:1087)(cid:1) (cid:16)(cid:41)(cid:1)(cid:29)(cid:32)(cid:35)(cid:28)(cid:39)(cid:33)(cid:1)(cid:42)(cid:33)(cid:1)(cid:13)(cid:19)(cid:18)(cid:2)(cid:1)(cid:10)(cid:41)(cid:30)(cid:1141)(cid:1)
(cid:20)(cid:30)(cid:42)(cid:43)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:1090)(cid:1)(cid:8)(cid:9)(cid:8)(cid:1)(cid:32)(cid:40)(cid:36)(cid:46)(cid:46)(cid:36)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:4)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:34)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:1092)(cid:1143)(cid:1)(cid:24)(cid:28)(cid:46)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:8)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:1)(cid:16)(cid:43)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:36)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:46)(cid:1089) (cid:1088)(cid:1091)(cid:1142)(cid:1092)(cid:1091)(cid:1093)(cid:1) (cid:1089)(cid:1088)(cid:1087)(cid:1089)(cid:1)(cid:4)(cid:36)(cid:47)(cid:52)(cid:24)(cid:32)(cid:46)(cid:47)(cid:1)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:49)(cid:31)(cid:1141)(cid:1142)(cid:1)(cid:1)(cid:1)
(cid:9)(cid:42)(cid:48)(cid:46)(cid:47)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:1142)(cid:1)(cid:21)(cid:32)(cid:51)(cid:28)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:1095)(cid:1095)(cid:1087)(cid:1094)(cid:1094)(cid:1)(cid:1)
(cid:20)(cid:30)(cid:42)(cid:43)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:1090)(cid:1)(cid:8)(cid:9)(cid:8)(cid:1)(cid:32)(cid:40)(cid:36)(cid:46)(cid:46)(cid:36)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:4)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:34)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:1093)(cid:1143)(cid:1)(cid:3)(cid:48)(cid:46)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:32)(cid:46)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:21)(cid:45)(cid:28)(cid:49)(cid:32)(cid:39)(cid:1090) (cid:1090)(cid:1088)(cid:1142)(cid:1092)(cid:1088)(cid:1095)(cid:1)
(cid:1)
(cid:15)(cid:42)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:1088)(cid:1)(cid:20)(cid:30)(cid:42)(cid:43)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:1090)(cid:1)(cid:32)(cid:40)(cid:36)(cid:46)(cid:46)(cid:36)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:30)(cid:28)(cid:39)(cid:30)(cid:48)(cid:39)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:48)(cid:46)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:34)(cid:1)(cid:6)(cid:6)(cid:10)(cid:16)(cid:1)(cid:49)(cid:1088)(cid:1141)(cid:1089)(cid:1)(cid:33)(cid:28)(cid:30)(cid:47)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:1)(cid:4)(cid:16)(cid:1089)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:1175)(cid:17)(cid:48)(cid:29)(cid:39)(cid:36)(cid:46)(cid:35)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:48)(cid:46)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:34)(cid:1)(cid:10)(cid:17)(cid:4)(cid:4)(cid:1)(cid:2)(cid:19)(cid:1091)(cid:1176)(cid:1141)(cid:1)(cid:1)
(cid:13)(cid:19)(cid:18)(cid:2)(cid:1)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:33)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:30)(cid:32)(cid:1143)(cid:1)(cid:22)(cid:18)(cid:2)(cid:1087)(cid:1087)(cid:1087)(cid:1087)(cid:1087)(cid:1096)(cid:1090)(cid:1092)(cid:1)
(cid:15)(cid:42)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:1089)(cid:1143)(cid:1)(cid:6)(cid:40)(cid:36)(cid:46)(cid:46)(cid:36)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:33)(cid:45)(cid:42)(cid:40)(cid:1)(cid:24)(cid:28)(cid:46)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:8)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:1)(cid:16)(cid:43)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:36)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:30)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:46)(cid:36)(cid:46)(cid:47)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:42)(cid:33)(cid:1)(cid:39)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:33)(cid:36)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1142)(cid:1)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:30)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1142)(cid:1)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:30)(cid:52)(cid:30)(cid:39)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:50)(cid:28)(cid:46)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:50)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:1141)(cid:1)(cid:10)(cid:41)(cid:30)(cid:39)(cid:48)(cid:31)(cid:32)(cid:46)(cid:1)
(cid:35)(cid:28)(cid:53)(cid:28)(cid:45)(cid:31)(cid:42)(cid:48)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:41)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:1162)(cid:35)(cid:28)(cid:53)(cid:28)(cid:45)(cid:31)(cid:42)(cid:48)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:50)(cid:28)(cid:46)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:46)(cid:47)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:28)(cid:40)(cid:46)(cid:1141)(cid:1)(cid:1)(cid:1) (cid:1)
(cid:15)(cid:42)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:1090)(cid:1)(cid:3)(cid:48)(cid:46)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:32)(cid:46)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:21)(cid:45)(cid:28)(cid:49)(cid:32)(cid:39)(cid:1)(cid:6)(cid:40)(cid:36)(cid:46)(cid:46)(cid:36)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:30)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:46)(cid:36)(cid:46)(cid:47)(cid:1)(cid:42)(cid:33)(cid:1)(cid:32)(cid:40)(cid:36)(cid:46)(cid:46)(cid:36)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:33)(cid:45)(cid:42)(cid:40)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:45)(cid:28)(cid:49)(cid:32)(cid:39)(cid:1)(cid:29)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:36)(cid:45)(cid:1142)(cid:1)(cid:45)(cid:28)(cid:36)(cid:39)(cid:1142)(cid:1)(cid:40)(cid:42)(cid:47)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:49)(cid:32)(cid:35)(cid:36)(cid:30)(cid:39)(cid:32)(cid:1142)(cid:1)(cid:29)(cid:42)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:1142)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:32)(cid:40)(cid:36)(cid:46)(cid:46)(cid:36)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:33)(cid:45)(cid:42)(cid:40)(cid:1)(cid:35)(cid:42)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:39)(cid:1)(cid:46)(cid:47)(cid:28)(cid:52)(cid:46)(cid:1141)(cid:1) (cid:13)(cid:19)(cid:18)(cid:2)(cid:1)(cid:8)(cid:45)(cid:42)(cid:48)(cid:43)(cid:1)(cid:13)(cid:36)(cid:40)(cid:36)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1142)(cid:1)(cid:36)(cid:47)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:33)(cid:33)(cid:36)(cid:39)(cid:36)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:46)(cid:48)(cid:29)(cid:46)(cid:36)(cid:31)(cid:36)(cid:28)(cid:45)(cid:36)(cid:32)(cid:46)(cid:1142)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:32)(cid:36)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:46)(cid:43)(cid:32)(cid:30)(cid:47)(cid:36)(cid:49)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:42)(cid:33)(cid:33)(cid:36)(cid:30)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:46)(cid:1142)(cid:1)(cid:32)(cid:40)(cid:43)(cid:39)(cid:42)(cid:52)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:34)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:47)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:1142)(cid:1)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:36)(cid:49)(cid:36)(cid:31)(cid:48)(cid:28)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:30)(cid:42)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:32)(cid:30)(cid:47)(cid:36)(cid:49)(cid:32)(cid:39)(cid:52)(cid:1142)(cid:1)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:33)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:42)(cid:1)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:1)
(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:36)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:30)(cid:39)(cid:28)(cid:48)(cid:46)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:1150)(cid:13)(cid:19)(cid:18)(cid:2)(cid:1150)(cid:1141)(cid:1)(cid:13)(cid:19)(cid:18)(cid:2)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:46)(cid:46)(cid:48)(cid:40)(cid:32)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:41)(cid:42)(cid:1)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:46)(cid:43)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:46)(cid:36)(cid:29)(cid:36)(cid:39)(cid:36)(cid:47)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:46)(cid:35)(cid:28)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:1)(cid:41)(cid:42)(cid:47)(cid:1)(cid:29)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:39)(cid:36)(cid:28)(cid:29)(cid:39)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:42)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:43)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:46)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:1)(cid:33)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:39)(cid:42)(cid:46)(cid:46)(cid:1142)(cid:1)(cid:31)(cid:28)(cid:40)(cid:28)(cid:34)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:32)(cid:51)(cid:43)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:46)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:30)(cid:28)(cid:48)(cid:46)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:29)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:39)(cid:36)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:30)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:32)(cid:1)
(cid:1)
(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:33)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:40)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:36)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:1)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:31)(cid:49)(cid:36)(cid:30)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:36)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:31)(cid:42)(cid:30)(cid:48)(cid:40)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:47)(cid:1)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:35)(cid:42)(cid:50)(cid:46)(cid:42)(cid:32)(cid:49)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:43)(cid:45)(cid:42)(cid:49)(cid:36)(cid:31)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1142)(cid:1)(cid:48)(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:32)(cid:46)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:1)(cid:43)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:46)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:1)(cid:35)(cid:28)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:46)(cid:36)(cid:34)(cid:41)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:1)(cid:30)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:47)(cid:45)(cid:28)(cid:30)(cid:47)(cid:1)(cid:50)(cid:36)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:39)(cid:32)(cid:49)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:47)(cid:1)(cid:13)(cid:19)(cid:18)(cid:2)(cid:1)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:47)(cid:36)(cid:47)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:33)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:32)(cid:1)
LRQA’s (cid:2)(cid:43)(cid:43)(cid:45)(cid:42)(cid:28)(cid:30)(cid:35)(cid:1) (cid:43)(cid:45)(cid:42)(cid:49)(cid:36)(cid:46)(cid:36)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:1)(cid:42)(cid:33)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:36)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:33)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:40)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:36)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:1)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:31)(cid:49)(cid:36)(cid:30)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:1)(cid:30)(cid:28)(cid:46)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:46)(cid:43)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:46)(cid:36)(cid:29)(cid:36)(cid:39)(cid:36)(cid:47)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:39)(cid:36)(cid:28)(cid:29)(cid:36)(cid:39)(cid:36)(cid:47)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:36)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:32)(cid:51)(cid:30)(cid:39)(cid:48)(cid:46)(cid:36)(cid:49)(cid:32)(cid:39)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:40)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:30)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:36)(cid:47)(cid:36)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:46)(cid:32)(cid:47)(cid:1)(cid:42)(cid:48)(cid:47)(cid:1)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:1)(cid:30)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:47)(cid:45)(cid:28)(cid:30)(cid:47)(cid:1141)(cid:1)
LRQA’s assurance engagements are carried out in accordance with our verification procedure. Th(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:33)(cid:42)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:42)(cid:50)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:34)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:28)(cid:46)(cid:38)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:50)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:1) (cid:21)(cid:35)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:6)(cid:41)(cid:34)(cid:39)(cid:36)(cid:46)(cid:35)(cid:1)(cid:49)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:46)(cid:36)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:1)(cid:42)(cid:33)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:36)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:2)(cid:46)(cid:46)(cid:48)(cid:45)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:30)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:20)(cid:47)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:40)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:47)(cid:1)(cid:36)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:49)(cid:28)(cid:39)(cid:36)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:49)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:46)(cid:36)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:1141)(cid:1)(cid:13)(cid:19)(cid:18)(cid:2)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:46)(cid:46)(cid:48)(cid:40)(cid:32)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:41)(cid:42)(cid:1)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:46)(cid:43)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:46)(cid:36)(cid:29)(cid:36)(cid:39)(cid:36)(cid:47)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:33)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:49)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:46)(cid:36)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:45)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:46)(cid:39)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:47)(cid:42)(cid:1)(cid:42)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:39)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:34)(cid:48)(cid:28)(cid:34)(cid:32)(cid:46)(cid:1141)(cid:1)(cid:1)
(cid:48)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:47)(cid:28)(cid:38)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:43)(cid:28)(cid:45)(cid:47)(cid:1)(cid:42)(cid:33)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:32)(cid:49)(cid:36)(cid:31)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:30)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:34)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:34)(cid:1)(cid:43)(cid:45)(cid:42)(cid:30)(cid:32)(cid:46)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:33)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:25)(cid:52)(cid:39)(cid:32)(cid:40)(cid:1142)(cid:1)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:30)(cid:39)(cid:48)(cid:46)(cid:36)(cid:49)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:42)(cid:33)(cid:1)(cid:39)(cid:32)(cid:34)(cid:28)(cid:30)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:25)(cid:52)(cid:39)(cid:32)(cid:40)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:39)(cid:32)(cid:34)(cid:28)(cid:30)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:6)(cid:49)(cid:42)(cid:44)(cid:48)(cid:28)(cid:1142)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:46)(cid:46)(cid:48)(cid:45)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:30)(cid:32)(cid:1) (cid:21)(cid:35)(cid:36)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:2)(cid:46)(cid:46)(cid:48)(cid:45)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:30)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:20)(cid:47)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:40)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:47)(cid:1)(cid:36)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:49)(cid:28)(cid:39)(cid:36)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:50)(cid:35)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:1)(cid:43)(cid:48)(cid:29)(cid:39)(cid:36)(cid:46)(cid:35)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:50)(cid:36)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:19)(cid:32)(cid:43)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:47)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:42)(cid:1)(cid:50)(cid:35)(cid:36)(cid:30)(cid:35)(cid:1)(cid:36)(cid:47)(cid:1)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:33)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:46)(cid:1141)(cid:1)(cid:10)(cid:47)(cid:1)(cid:40)(cid:28)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:29)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:43)(cid:45)(cid:42)(cid:31)(cid:48)(cid:30)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:1)(cid:36)(cid:47)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:47)(cid:36)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:47)(cid:52)(cid:1141)(cid:1)
(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:34)(cid:28)(cid:34)(cid:32)(cid:40)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:47)(cid:1143)(cid:1)(cid:1) (cid:4)(cid:42)(cid:43)(cid:52)(cid:45)(cid:36)(cid:34)(cid:35)(cid:47)(cid:1)(cid:1206)(cid:1)(cid:13)(cid:19)(cid:18)(cid:2)(cid:1142)(cid:1)(cid:1089)(cid:1087)(cid:1089)(cid:1091)(cid:1141)(cid:1)
• (cid:19)(cid:32)(cid:49)(cid:36)(cid:32)(cid:50)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:1)(cid:42)(cid:49)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:49)(cid:36)(cid:32)(cid:50)(cid:1)(cid:42)(cid:33)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:43)(cid:45)(cid:42)(cid:30)(cid:32)(cid:46)(cid:46)(cid:32)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:48)(cid:46)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:30)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:43)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:39)(cid:32)(cid:49)(cid:32)(cid:39)(cid:1)(cid:33)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:40)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:28)(cid:34)(cid:32)(cid:40)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:47)(cid:1)(cid:42)(cid:33)(cid:1)(cid:31)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:28)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:33)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:40)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:36)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:1) (cid:1)
(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:39)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:42)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:20)(cid:30)(cid:42)(cid:43)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:1088)(cid:1142)(cid:1)(cid:20)(cid:30)(cid:42)(cid:43)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:1089)(cid:1142)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:20)(cid:30)(cid:42)(cid:43)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:1090)(cid:1)(cid:8)(cid:9)(cid:8)(cid:1)(cid:32)(cid:40)(cid:36)(cid:46)(cid:46)(cid:36)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:46)(cid:1144)(cid:1)(cid:50)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:50)(cid:36)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:31)(cid:45)(cid:28)(cid:50)(cid:41)(cid:1144)(cid:1)(cid:50)(cid:28)(cid:46)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:34)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1144)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:37)(cid:48)(cid:45)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)
(cid:36)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:41)(cid:32)(cid:46)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:45)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:46)(cid:1144)(cid:1)
• (cid:10)(cid:41)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:49)(cid:36)(cid:32)(cid:50)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:39)(cid:32)(cid:49)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:47)(cid:1)(cid:46)(cid:47)(cid:28)(cid:33)(cid:33)(cid:1)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:46)(cid:43)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:46)(cid:36)(cid:29)(cid:39)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:33)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:40)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:28)(cid:34)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:34)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:40)(cid:28)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:47)(cid:28)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:34)(cid:1)(cid:31)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:28)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:33)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:40)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:36)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:33)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:43)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:43)(cid:28)(cid:45)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:34)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:32)(cid:1)
(cid:19)(cid:32)(cid:43)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:47)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:30)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:43)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:39)(cid:32)(cid:49)(cid:32)(cid:39)(cid:1144)(cid:1)(cid:1)
• (cid:19)(cid:32)(cid:49)(cid:36)(cid:32)(cid:50)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:25)(cid:52)(cid:39)(cid:32)(cid:40)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:43)(cid:45)(cid:42)(cid:30)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:48)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:33)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:31)(cid:32)(cid:33)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:34)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:30)(cid:42)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:32)(cid:30)(cid:47)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:34)(cid:1)(cid:20)(cid:30)(cid:42)(cid:43)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:1088)(cid:1142)(cid:1)(cid:20)(cid:30)(cid:42)(cid:43)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:1089)(cid:1142)(cid:1)(cid:20)(cid:30)(cid:42)(cid:43)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:1090)(cid:1)(cid:8)(cid:9)(cid:8)(cid:1)(cid:32)(cid:40)(cid:36)(cid:46)(cid:46)(cid:36)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:46)(cid:1142)(cid:1)(cid:50)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:1)
(cid:50)(cid:36)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:31)(cid:45)(cid:28)(cid:50)(cid:41)(cid:1142)(cid:1)(cid:50)(cid:28)(cid:46)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:34)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:31)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:28)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:37)(cid:48)(cid:45)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:36)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:41)(cid:32)(cid:46)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:31)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:28)(cid:1144)(cid:1)
• (cid:23)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:36)(cid:33)(cid:36)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:20)(cid:30)(cid:42)(cid:43)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:1088)(cid:1142)(cid:1)(cid:20)(cid:30)(cid:42)(cid:43)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:1089)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:20)(cid:30)(cid:42)(cid:43)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:1090)(cid:1)(cid:8)(cid:9)(cid:8)(cid:1)(cid:32)(cid:40)(cid:36)(cid:46)(cid:46)(cid:36)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:46)(cid:1142)(cid:1)(cid:50)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:50)(cid:36)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:31)(cid:45)(cid:28)(cid:50)(cid:41)(cid:1142)(cid:1)(cid:50)(cid:28)(cid:46)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:34)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:37)(cid:48)(cid:45)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:36)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:41)(cid:32)(cid:46)(cid:46)(cid:1)
(cid:31)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:28)(cid:1)(cid:33)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:4)(cid:26)(cid:1)(cid:1089)(cid:1087)(cid:1089)(cid:1090)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:33)(cid:42)(cid:48)(cid:45)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:1)(cid:44)(cid:48)(cid:28)(cid:45)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:1089)(cid:1087)(cid:1089)(cid:1089)(cid:1)(cid:33)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:6)(cid:49)(cid:42)(cid:44)(cid:48)(cid:28)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:45)(cid:42)(cid:48)(cid:34)(cid:35)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:1)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:49)(cid:36)(cid:32)(cid:50)(cid:1)(cid:42)(cid:33)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:34)(cid:34)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:34)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:39)(cid:32)(cid:49)(cid:32)(cid:39)(cid:1)(cid:31)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:28)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:33)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:40)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:36)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:1)
(cid:30)(cid:28)(cid:39)(cid:30)(cid:48)(cid:39)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:36)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:1)(cid:46)(cid:43)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:28)(cid:31)(cid:46)(cid:35)(cid:32)(cid:32)(cid:47)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:43)(cid:45)(cid:42)(cid:49)(cid:36)(cid:31)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:29)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:25)(cid:52)(cid:39)(cid:32)(cid:40)(cid:1144)(cid:1)
• (cid:23)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:36)(cid:33)(cid:36)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:20)(cid:30)(cid:42)(cid:43)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:1089)(cid:1)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:32)(cid:50)(cid:28)(cid:29)(cid:39)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:34)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:30)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:36)(cid:47)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:1175)(cid:19)(cid:6)(cid:4)(cid:46)(cid:1176)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:32)(cid:50)(cid:28)(cid:29)(cid:39)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:34)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:48)(cid:46)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:45)(cid:42)(cid:48)(cid:34)(cid:35)(cid:1)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:49)(cid:36)(cid:32)(cid:50)(cid:1)(cid:42)(cid:33)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:19)(cid:6)(cid:4)(cid:1)
(cid:30)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:47)(cid:36)(cid:33)(cid:36)(cid:30)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:49)(cid:42)(cid:36)(cid:30)(cid:32)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:33)(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:32)(cid:50)(cid:28)(cid:29)(cid:39)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:34)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:49)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:36)(cid:33)(cid:36)(cid:30)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:36)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:1)(cid:42)(cid:33)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:32)(cid:40)(cid:36)(cid:46)(cid:46)(cid:36)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:1)(cid:30)(cid:28)(cid:39)(cid:30)(cid:48)(cid:39)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:36)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:46)(cid:1144)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)
• (cid:4)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:33)(cid:36)(cid:45)(cid:40)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:25)(cid:52)(cid:39)(cid:32)(cid:40)(cid:1)(cid:35)(cid:28)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:31)(cid:42)(cid:30)(cid:48)(cid:40)(cid:32)(cid:41)(cid:47)(cid:32)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:32)(cid:36)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:29)(cid:28)(cid:46)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:52)(cid:32)(cid:28)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:41)(cid:31)(cid:1)(cid:30)(cid:28)(cid:46)(cid:32)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:50)(cid:35)(cid:36)(cid:30)(cid:35)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:45)(cid:36)(cid:34)(cid:34)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:29)(cid:28)(cid:46)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:52)(cid:32)(cid:28)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:45)(cid:32)(cid:30)(cid:28)(cid:39)(cid:30)(cid:48)(cid:39)(cid:28)(cid:47)(cid:36)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:1141)(cid:1)(cid:1)(cid:4)(cid:26)(cid:1)(cid:1089)(cid:1087)(cid:1089)(cid:1090)(cid:1)(cid:47)(cid:45)(cid:36)(cid:34)(cid:34)(cid:32)(cid:45)(cid:46)(cid:1)
a base year recalculation and Xylem’s new base year is 2023. (cid:1)
(cid:856)(cid:3) (cid:856)(cid:3)
(cid:3) (cid:87)(cid:258)(cid:336)(cid:286)(cid:3)(cid:1007)(cid:3)(cid:381)(cid:296)(cid:3)(cid:1008)(cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:87)(cid:258)(cid:336)(cid:286)(cid:3)(cid:1008)(cid:3)(cid:381)(cid:296)(cid:3)(cid:1008)(cid:3) (cid:3)
Xylem Inc.
301 Water Street SE
Washington DC, 20003
