SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT
2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 1
RETURN TO TOC
TABLE OF CONTENTS
COMPANY PROFILE SOCIAL - Our Team Members SOCIAL - Our Patients and Products
Corporate Overview 5 Talent Acquisition 15 Product Quality 22
Mission and Guiding Principles 5 Internships and Early Career Programs 15 Supplier Code of Conduct 23
Our Approach to ESG 7 Talent Development 15 Supplier Social Responsibility Audits 23
Company Awards 8 Recognition 16 Supplier Diligence 24
Culture Promises 17 Supplier Quality Audits 24
Global Leadership Competencies 17 Supplier Diversity 24
Management of Risks Associated
Performance Connections 18
25
with Use of Critical Materials
Team Member Engagement 18
ENVIRONMENTAL Animal Testing Policy 26
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion 19
Environmental Risk Management Policy 10 Clinical Trial Program 26
Health, Safety & Wellness 20
EHSS Management System 10 Clinical Trial Transparency 26
Flexibility 20
Environmental Targets 11 Health Equity and Access to Healthcare 26
Total Rewards 20
Corporate Grants, Donations and Funding 27
Pay Equity 21
Product Donations/Medical Missions 27
Collective Bargaining 21
Zimmer Biomet Foundation 28
Discrimination Policy 21
Patient Privacy and Data Security 30
Cybersecurity 31
COMPANY OVERVIEW ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2
RETURN TO TOC
TABLE OF CONTENTS
GOVERNANCE APPENDIX
Corporate Governance 33 Report of Independent Accountants Letter 42
Ethical Business Conduct 34 Zimmer Biomet Management Assertion 43
Consistent Global Approach to Policy 2023 Sustainability Accounting Standards
35 47
Management Board Index
Continuous Improvement of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial
35 49
Compliance Program Disclosures (TCFD)
Countering Corruption 36 Safe Harbor Statement 50
Speak Up: Zimmer Biomet’s
36
Whistleblower Program
Ethical Marketing 37
Compliance with Industry Codes 38
Zimmer Biomet’s Statement of
39
Engagement on Public Policy Issues
Specific Policies of Interest 39
How Zimmer Biomet Engages
39
in Public Policy
Industry Groups and Trade Associations 39
Political Contributions 40
COMPANY OVERVIEW ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 3
RETURN TO TOC
Environment Social
2023
Expanded Zero Waste to Landfill (ZWTL) initiative Achieved highest employee engagement levels since our 2015 merger,
measured by our annual Engagement Survey in 2023 with improved scores
for 100% of the indicators
ESG Highlights
73% 61% 60%
PEOPLE OF COLOR (POC) WOMEN
of solid waste of solid waste of our in-scope global 25% 36%
diverted from recycled at 18 ZWTL- network is internally
OUR MISSION landfills certified sites certified total team member total team member
population in the U.S. population
Alleviate pain and improve the quality
16% 26%
of life for people around the world.
director-level director-level
Established a formal commitment with Science Based Targets initiative
and above and above
OUR ESG COMMITMENT (SBTi) to reach Net-Zero greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by 2050
Advance Zimmer Biomet’s environmental, OUR SBTI CLIMATE GOALS 2023 PROGRESS
As of December 31, 2023
social and governance (ESG) initiatives
55% reduction in absolute Reduced our 2023 Scope 1 and 2
to drive long-term value for our operational (Scope 1 and 2 (market-based) carbon emissions by
Increased Women and POC at director-level and above
stakeholders through Three Key Priorities: market based) GHG emissions more than 7% from our 2022 levels
by 2030 from a 2017 baseline
People & Culture, Operational Excellence Surpassed our 2030 commitment
and Innovation & Diversification. by already reducing 56% of our Eight employee resource groups (ERGs), with more than 15% of team
Scope 1 and 2 (market-based) carbon members participating and continuous membership growth
emissions
15% reduction in absolute Worked with suppliers to Furthered our commitment to integrating health equity into our business strategy
Scope 3 GHG emissions from increase transparency and improve
purchased goods and services environmental performance • Established the Zimmer Biomet Health Equity division and launched our
by 2030 from a 2019 baseline Community Centered Care (C3) framework
• Signed the Global Health Equity Network’s Zero Health Gaps Pledge
in 2024
Governance
Strong quality focus
100%
COMMITMENT
Class 1-2 Recalls
ZERO
of team members and Zimmer to world-class Quality and Compliance pending FDA Warning Letters 63
displaying our substantial progress
Biomet’s Board of Directors Managerial and Board oversight of
on quality system enhancements
successfully completed the quality with internal and external audits
and remediation
Code of Business Conduct and 9
as of December 2023
Ethics training
2017 2023
COMPANY OVERVIEW ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 4
RETURN TO TOC
COMPANY OVERVIEW
Zimmer Biomet is a global medical technology leader with a OUR MISSION
95+ comprehensive portfolio designed to maximize mobility and
Alleviate pain and improve the quality of life for people around
improve health. We seamlessly transform the patient experience
the world.
through our innovative products and suite of integrated digital
GUIDING PRINCIPLES
and robotic technologies that leverage data, analytics and
artificial intelligence. • Respect and show gratitude for the contributions and
YEAR LEGACY OF INNOVATION AND SUCCESS
diverse perspectives of others
• Commit to the highest standards of patient safety, quality
With more than 95 years of trusted leadership and proven
and integrity
expertise, Zimmer Biomet is positioned to deliver the highest
,
~18 000
quality solutions to patients and providers. Our legacy continues • Focus our resources in areas where we will make
to come to life today through our progressive culture of evolution a difference
and innovation.
• Ensure our return is equivalent to the value we provide
our customers and patients
TEAM MEMBERS WORLDWIDE
For more information about our product portfolio, our operations • Give back to our communities and people in need
in more than 25 countries and sales in more than 100 countries
ABOUT THIS REPORT
visit www.zimmerbiomet.com or follow Zimmer Biomet on Twitter
~$7.4 BILLION This report highlights our commitment to sustainability, and it
and LinkedIn.
provides an overview of our governance, policies, programs and
performance around Environmental, Social, and Governance
FY 2023 NET SALES (ESG) matters important to Zimmer Biomet Holdings, Inc.
(“Zimmer Biomet,” “we,” “us,” “our,” “the Company”) and its global
subsidiaries. Unless otherwise stated, this report covers Zimmer
Biomet’s performance in fiscal year 2023, ending December 31,
100+ 2023. We report using the following standards: Sustainability
Accounting Standards Board (SASB) and Task Force on Climate-
related Financial Disclosures (TCFD).
COUNTRIES WHERE ZIMMER BIOMET
SOLUTIONS ARE USED
COMPANY OVERVIEW ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 5
RETURN TO TOC
A MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO For nearly 100 years, Zimmer Biomet has been a bold problem- quality care within underserved communities. The framework
solver. Our legacy of innovative products and technologies, implements a multi-pronged approach that engages the
fueled by the commitment of our approximately 18,000 team health network to collaborate on insights and innovation to
members, provides the foundation for our Mission today: to improve patient outcomes.
alleviate pain and improve the quality of life for people around the
• Continuing to make progress toward reaching our
world.
SBTi-approved goals of reducing carbon emissions.
Our Three Key Priorities guide our accountability to patients, We reduced our 2023 Scope 1 and 2 (market-based)
customers, team members and the world we share: carbon emissions by more than 7% from our 2022 levels.
Additionally, Zimmer Biomet is working with suppliers
• People & Culture: By having the right people in the right
to increase transparency and improve environmental
roles within the right culture while fostering an inclusive,
performance.
empowering workplace, we ensure our team members
can thrive in an environment that values diversity and • Expanding Zero Waste to Landfill (ZWTL) initiative. The
authenticity. flagship program aims to have no waste sent directly to
landfill for disposal. In 2023, we moved this global initiative
• Operational Excellence: By optimizing our processes,
forward with 18 sites now internally certified, representing
focusing on efficiency and effectiveness, we meet the
60% of our in-scope global network.
needs of our customers and patients reliably, consistently
and more sustainably. • Zero pending FDA Warning Letters as of December 2023.
As part of our commitment to drive greater accountability
• Innovation & Diversification: We innovate and diversify
for compliance with, and sustained improvements in, our
our business through internal and external R&D programs,
global quality system, we cleared our single outstanding FDA
addressing evolving challenges as a leader in responsible,
Warning Letter in December 2023.
ethical business practices.
• Continuing our focus on quality management programs
I am incredibly proud of how we advanced our 2023
and performance. For the second year in a row, Zimmer
Environmental, Social and Governance initiatives—aligned to
Biomet maintained fewer than 10 product recalls in the year.
our Three Key Priorities—achieving milestones that demonstrate
accountability and growth, while delivering value for our patients, We have millions of people depending on our Mission. We
customers and team members. have amazing, dedicated team members delivering on our
commitments every single day. And we have one planet to share.
Key highlights include:
One Mission. One team. One world. Our responsibility.
• Achieving the highest ever employee engagement levels
since our 2015 merger. Our company-wide engagement
index score increased a remarkable 7 points over 2022
results, with improved scores for 100% of the indicators.
• Furthering our commitment to integrating health equity
into our business strategy. Our new Community Centered
Sincerely,
Care (C3) framework aims to increase patient access to
Ivan Tornos
President and CEO, Zimmer Biomet
COMPANY OVERVIEW ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 6
RETURN TO TOC
OUR APPROACH TO ESG
We take a comprehensive and proactive approach to ESG. Our
Board of Directors (“Board”), through the Corporate Governance
Committee, oversees risks and programs relating to ESG matters,
including current and emerging political, corporate citizenship and
Zimmer Biomet is committed to being public policy issues for the Company. The Corporate Governance
Committee receives quarterly reports from Zimmer Biomet’s
a good corporate citizen. Our global team leadership team.
Additionally, in conjunction with the full Board, the Compensation
is dedicated to sustainable practices across
and Management Development Committee oversees risks relating
to human capital management. The Quality, Regulatory and
the entire ESG spectrum.
Technology Committee oversees risks relating to our compliance
with laws and regulations enforced by the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration (“FDA”) and comparable foreign government
regulators, including product quality and safety. The Board
receives detailed regular reports from members of our executive
leadership team and other personnel that include discussions of
the risks and exposures involved with their respective areas of
responsibility.
In 2022, we established a Zimmer Biomet function responsible
for building and executing a comprehensive strategy around ESG
initiatives under the Communications & Administration team. That
team continues to oversee all ESG activity and the ESG Working
Group.
The ESG leadership team, along with the full ESG Working Group,
meets monthly to discuss Zimmer Biomet’s ESG initiatives and
to identify ways to enhance our ESG program. The ESG Working
Group is a global, cross-functional team representing 12 Zimmer
Biomet functions critical to executing on our ESG goals. Our Chief
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer receive monthly ESG
progress updates.
We proactively engage with ratings agencies and shareholders
to inform our ESG processes and provide the appropriate level of
transparency while using third-party auditing and benchmarking
to pinpoint areas for continuous improvement.
COMPANY OVERVIEW ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 7
RETURN TO TOC
COMPANY AWARDS
America’s Greatest
Workplaces for Diversity
2024 by Newsweek
America’s Greenest
Companies 2024 by
Newsweek
America’s Greatest
Workplaces for Women
2024 by Newsweek
America’s Greatest
Workplaces for Job
Starters 2024 by
Newsweek
COMPANY OVERVIEW ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 8
RETURN TO TOC
2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 9
RETURN TO TOC
Environmental Risk Management Policy Business Integration
Consistent with Zimmer Biomet’s Mission, Code of Business We integrate EHSS principles into business decisions to
Conduct and Ethics and the Environmental, Health, Safety and proactively improve the health and safety of our team members
Sustainability (EHSS) vision, we are committed to conducting and communities, while also promoting environmentally
business in a safe and environmentally sustainable way that sustainable practices. Specifically, we require that an EHSS
promotes the health of our team members, customers, community evaluation be integrated into product design, manufacturing and
and the environment, with a focus on fighting climate change. distribution processes and services. This evaluation identifies
EHSS risks for mitigation and promotes pollution prevention while
The purpose of our Environmental Risk Management Policy
improving performance throughout our operations, packaging and
is to uphold the principles of the EHSS programs while also
product lifecycles.
implementing and sustaining global best practices. This policy
applies to our locations worldwide providing uniform guidance for
Environment & Climate Change
Zimmer Biomet EHSS teams to manage and monitor risk within
our global manufacturing and distribution processes. To address climate change, we seek to work wherever feasible
to minimize waste and emissions, reuse and recycle materials,
EHSS Management System promote renewable energy use, reduce greenhouse gas
emissions and conserve energy and water.
Our Environmental Risk Management Policy is supported and
executed by a robust EHSS Management System that delivers six
main outcomes: Health & Safety
Zimmer Biomet EHSS establishes health and safety standards
Compliance intended to promote a safe and healthy workplace.
We strive to comply with–and often exceed–the requirements of
all applicable EHSS laws, regulations, Company EHSS standards Communication & Education
and other requirements to which we subscribe related to EHSS Zimmer Biomet EHSS communicates its Environmental Health
subject matter and risks. We conduct frequent, targeted, internal and Safety Policy internally and externally to team members,
and external audits and implement best practices to maintain customers, shareholders, suppliers, community and other
compliance. stakeholders.
Continuous Improvement
Zimmer Biomet establishes EHSS goals, objectives and targets
across our global business and continually strives to improve
our performance and publicly report on our progress against
key enterprise goals. Our EHSS standards establish controls and
promote a positive EHSS culture.
COMPANY OVERVIEW ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 10
RETURN TO TOC
committed to setting science- based targets, which in 2021 were
approved by the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi).
We have committed to reduce our absolute Scope 1 and 2
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 55% by 2030 from a 2017 base
year. We have also committed to reduce absolute Scope 3 GHG
emissions from purchased goods and services 15% by 2030
from a 2019 base year. More than 68% of suppliers in our supply
chain that were requested for GHG emissions responded to our
disclosure requests in 2023, furthering our efforts to reduce our
carbon footprint and improve environmental performance through
engagement with our suppliers.
In September 2023, Zimmer Biomet made a formal commitment,
with SBTi, to reach Net-Zero GHG emissions by 2050.
CO Emissions MT
2e
Scope 1 & 2 (market MT)
190,139
200,000
160,000
120,000
80,000
2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 11
RETURN TO TOC
)TM(
e20C
Zero Waste to Landfill
Zimmer Biomet continues to position Zero Waste to Landfill
(ZWTL) as a flagship program that establishes excellence in
waste management. In 2023, we had 18 sites internally certified
in ZWTL, an increase of 3 sites since 2022. ZWTL sites now
represent 60% of the in-scope global network.
The goal of the ZWTL program is to have no waste sent directly to
landfill for disposal. Waste that cannot be eliminated at the source
must be recycled or sent for incineration as Waste to Energy
(WtE). A location, building or department can achieve ZWTL
status by ensuring that at least 85% of the total waste produced is
recycled using the criteria above.
Additionally, we diverted 73% of our waste from landfill in 2023.
As we reduce our landfill waste, we continue to also find ways to
increase recycling. In 2023, we recycled 61%, an increase of 3%
compared to 2022.
188,912 190,163
173,568
142,176
89,801
82,993
Community Collaboration
2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Since 2011, Zimmer Biomet has been a corporate sponsor of U.S.-
based ACRES Land Trust (ACRES), Indiana’s oldest and largest
membership based non-profit land conservation organization. Zimmer Biomet continues to leverage the Virtual Power Purchase
ACRES protects more than 7,200 acres of forests, wetlands, Agreement (VPPA) that was negotiated in 2021 with a large-
grasslands and unique geological features in more than 115 nature scale solar farm, Prospero II, that for 2023, produced more than
preserves, many of which are open to the public. 163,000MWh of clean electricity — which equates to more than
72,000 metric tons of CO2 emissions representing almost 60%
Environmental Targets
of renewable energy for Zimmer Biomet’s 2023 Scope 2 (market-
Environmental issues and the threat of climate change require an based) GHG emissions.
urgent and immediate response. In 2020, Zimmer Biomet publicly
Target Actual (%)
COMPANY OVERVIEW ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX
.dtS
LTWZ
htiw
setis
fo
egatnecreP
Zimmer Biomet - Waste Disposal 2023
61% 27%
RECYCLED LANDFILL
12%
WASTE TO
ENERGY
Source: Zimmer Biomet internal invoice data and third-party sources.
ZB Sites with ZWTL Standard
100%
60%
52%
0%
2022 2023 2030
We continue to pursue renewable energy opportunities globally
and have outfitted all major manufacturing and distribution sites
with LED lighting, advancing our commitment to becoming a
recognized leader within the environmental space.
In 2023, our Ireland manufacturing sites installed nearly 5,000
solar panels on the rooftops of both locations (Shannon and
Galway), which we project will annually generate 1.3 megawatts
of electricity and offset 1.1 metric tons of CO2 emissions annually.
Additionally, sites in Warsaw, Indiana began the implementation of
a native plantings that returned more than 25 acres of maintained
grass into a natural habitat of indigenous plants. We expect the
project will create more than 42 metric tons of CO2 avoidance
and absorption annually.
We participate in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), and
received a Climate Change 2023 rating of A as well as a Supplier
Engagement Rating (SER) rating of A. (See our grades at
Scores-CDP.) The Supplier Engagement Rating (SER) assesses
performance on governance, targets, Scope 3 emissions
and value chain engagement in the CDP Climate Change
questionnaire. Engagement in our supply chain is a key part of
our environmental leadership strategy, and we received a 2023
SER rating of A. Making the A-List for both Climate Change and
Supplier Engagement places Zimmer Biomet in the Leadership
Band globally with scores well above the medical device industry
average score of C.
Task Force on Climate-related Financial
Disclosures (TCFD)
Zimmer Biomet intends to continue using the TCFD framework
to help govern, identify and manage climate-related risks and
opportunities. In our appendix you will find additional information
about Zimmer Biomet’s use of the TCFD framework.
COMPANY OVERVIEW ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 12
RETURN TO TOC
2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 13
RETURN TO TOC
OUR TEAM MEMBERS it comes to life in our Diversity, Equity and Inclusion strategy
and in our commitment to meaningful connections between
One of Zimmer Biomet’s strategic outcomes is our
team members and their direct and extended teams, globally
commitment to being a Best and Preferred Place to Work
and cross-functionally.
(BPPTW). It is about winning the hearts and minds of our
team members and is focused on four tenets: • Holistic Well-Being is a sense of feeling cared for as a whole
person, which extends to caring for and supporting our team
• Shared Purpose is being inspired by what we do
members, families and communities. We think about Holistic
every day. It means feeling invested in contributing to
Well-Being in four key categories: Mental Health, Physical
something greater than one’s self–for a higher purpose.
Health, Financial Health and Social Health
Shared purpose shows up in how each team member
connects with the Mission, as well as in our how we • Professional and Personal Growth means, “I feel valued.”
strive to be a good corporate citizen. We are committed to supporting team member professional
and personal growth with a focus on achieving career goals
• Deeper Connections focuses on belonging. We
and celebrating their journey through recognition. Ensuring
empower every voice and team members can share
our team members feel valued is critical to becoming a
perspectives that others listen to and respect, even
destination workplace.
if they disagree. It is a belief that we each uniquely
contribute to the organization to make a difference, and
BEST & PREFERRED PLACE TO WORK BE A DESTINATION WORKPLACE
COMPANY OVERVIEW ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 14
RETURN TO TOC
Talent Acquisition Approximately 60% of our finance summer interns in 2023
received a full-time job offer into our Finance rotational program,
We believe our efforts to broaden our reach into more
which includes a competitive salary, sign-on bonus and full
diverse talent pools enables us to further our strategy of
benefits.
obtaining the best talent. Our talent teams partner with
our employee resource groups (ERGs), hiring managers
Talent Development
and executive sponsors to continuously broaden the reach
Development comes from diverse experiences, not just programs
of our talent pools by engaging with various national and
or courses. We invest in team member development and
campus partnerships such as: National Association of Asian
deliver programs that help prepare leaders. We also identify
American Professionals, Society of Asian Scientists and
opportunities for internal mobility, giving team members at all
Engineers, Executive Leadership Council, Lean In, Hire Our
levels development experiences that keep them growing and
Heroes, Human Rights Campaign, National Sales Network,
engaged with Zimmer Biomet.
Catalyst and Hispanic Alliance for Career and Enhancement.
In 2023, we launched Learn & Lead, comprising several new
Internships and Early Career Programs
leadership development programs:
We equip our interns with experience and leadership skills • Executive Leadership Program: A 12-month program,
to become the next generation of bold innovators. We offer anchored in our strategic priorities, that connects high-
internship and early career programs primarily in the U.S. potential leaders, globally, to improve their self-awareness,
with plans to expand further in our locations outside of the sharpen their leadership capabilities, strengthen their
U.S. strategic execution and expand their business knowledge
We provide curated, enriching and rigorous internship and network. Used as a key tool to prepare ready-now
programs tailored to students aspiring to pursue careers successors for senior-level leadership roles, 27% of the
cohort was promoted during 2023 alone.
in Finance and Engineering, as well as other disciplines.
These internships offer valuable hands-on experiences • Women in Leadership Program: A cohort-based 10-month
and real-world learning opportunities, preparing students global program focused on empowering high-potential
for a seamless transition into their professional careers. leaders with the understanding of the unwritten rules
Additionally, we extend the opportunity for full-time roles that can often hold back women’s careers, building the
upon graduation. confidence and connection that help to enable career
progression. In addition to high-potential women, the
Our full-time Finance rotational development program is
program is also open to men who have an interest in learning
a launching pad for college graduates. Participants rotate
about some of the barriers women encounter during career
across global business areas for a diverse view of their
progression.
function and its processes. This program also provides early
career hires with mentors from our global ERGs, professional
development and social events.
COMPANY OVERVIEW ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 15
RETURN TO TOC
Square Column F - JWI - Fairmont Century Plaza
How do you
We continue to improve our Learning Management System, which
foster
includes 34,000 courses globally and is the primary delivery
ipsLuomre md 225
mechanism of role-based training requirements for all full-time
collaboration?
and part-time team members and contractors.
One development experience available to all team members is
Mentoring Connections – our global cohort-based mentoring
MENTOR/MENTEE PAIRS WERE MATCHED
program designed to connect experienced Zimmer Biomet
professionals with team members who are eager to learn from
their experience. Registration and matching of mentors and
• New Leader Program: A cohort-based 6-month global
mentees for the program happens annually. In 2023, more
program designed to help build core leadership skills for
than 225 mentor/mentee pairs were matched and focused on
Are you leaders who are new to a leadership role at Zimmer Biomet,
leadership development, career growth and advancement, as well
including emotional intelligence, coaching and feedback and
as expanding their knowledge of the business and industry. Each
a member developing high performing teams.
mentor and mentee completed mentoring training as a part of this
We continue to support the learning and development needs program to ensure the best possible outcome.
of an ERG? of our organization through several new and ongoing training
Celebrating The Power of Us
courses. The format for this learning is as varied as the topics, Recognition
including in-person, instructor-led to virtual and even self-
IGNITE is our global, social recognition platform that we use
directed.
to recognize team members for the exceptional work they
• Speexx, is our new language learning platform. do every day – from a simple “thank you” to awarding points
for achievements, to commenting on a recognition post and
• Crucial Conversations focuses on effective communication
celebrating professional and personal milestones like service
and dialogue skills.
anniversaries and birthdays. In 2023, we had more than 100,000
• Insights Discovery is a psychometric tool to help team
moments of recognition, reaching 74% of our global team.
members understand themselves and others and how to
What does make the most of workplace relationships.
• Coursera is an online learning platform that delivers robust,
inclusion
certificate-based content in partnership with major colleges, %
74
universities and corporations.
mean to you?
Also, in 2023, we entered into a partnership with LinkedIn
Learning as our global, enterprise-wide learning content platform,
with plans to implement by mid-2024.
OF GLOBAL TEAM MEMBERS RECOGNIZED
COMPANY OVERVIEW ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 16
RETURN TO TOC
Panel size:
52”W x 107”H
Culture Promises Global Leadership Competencies
Our Culture Promises describe a shared commitment to build a Our Global Leadership Competencies are behaviors that are
stronger Zimmer Biomet. informed by our culture promises, support our Mission and enable
successful outcomes aligned to our strategic priorities.
• We Shape Tomorrow by seeking bold possibilities, using
insights and experience to deliver on our Mission, blazing Used throughout the team member career journey, our Global
new trails in innovation and providing meaningful outcomes Leadership Competencies are integrated into interview questions,
for patients. learning and development programs, manager 360 reviews, and
in succession planning to ensure we are building a pipeline of
• Ignite Collaboration is our promise to foster an inclusive
talent who will fill future leadership roles.
and collaborative environment that empowers our team
members.
• With a Focus to Win, we are proactive and agile to deliver
winning outcomes and driving our business forward. Our
culture promises are how we interact as a team and with
each other to deliver on our Mission.
COMPANY OVERVIEW ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 17
RETURN TO TOC
Performance Connections Team Member Engagement respective action plans are shared with our Board of Directors
and our team members.
Performance Connections is Zimmer Biomet’s performance In 2023, Zimmer Biomet re-certified in the U.S. as a Great Place
management framework that helps foster deeper to Work®. In addition, certification was awarded in Poland, Puerto For our 2023 annual Engagement Survey, we had a strong survey
connections. Performance Connections empowers team Rico, Switzerland and India. We were recognized based on what response rate of 83%, hearing from more than 14,600 team
members—in partnership with their managers—to define our team members say about their experience working at Zimmer members around the globe. Our company-wide engagement
how their skills, experiences, strengths and aspirations Biomet, our Company culture and our workforce. Certification index score increased a remarkable 7 points more than 2022
contribute to deliver on our strategy and Mission. The annual is an exciting accomplishment and is only possible because results, with improved scores for 100% of the questions asked.
Performance Connections lifecycle is comprised of both of the dedication and commitment of our team members. This We believe it is critical to keep our team members engaged
structured and ongoing check-ins—from setting priorities achievement is a testament to our ongoing focus to become a through frequent and transparent communication. This is
to career check-ins and annual performance reviews. Best and Preferred Place to Work, guided by our culture promises, accomplished through town halls, video and written messages,
Managers and team members align on and continuously that provide a foundation for our team members to feel a sense of news and recognition on our intranet site and various other
address opportunities and recognize achievements. belonging so they can thrive. methods.
We value our team members’ input and to that end, we conduct
surveys throughout the team member life cycle, including
83% recruiting, onboarding, engagement, and exit surveys, as a part
of our listening strategy that ultimately inform our actions towards
improving team member engagement. Our surveys are aligned
to our Best & Preferred Place to Work tenets measuring shared
purpose, connection, well-being and personal and professional
ENGAGEMENT SURVEY RESPONSE RATE
growth. The key results of the annual engagement survey and
COMPANY OVERVIEW ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 18
RETURN TO TOC
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Zimmer Biomet has established 2026 representation goals for
PEOPLE OF COLOR (POC)
woman and POC at director-level and above. These aspirational
Zimmer Biomet remains committed to fostering diversity, equity
goals were established by conducting statistical analysis to 25%
and inclusion, (DEI) within Zimmer Biomet and in the communities
identify areas of underrepresentation. These goals guide Zimmer
that we serve. As a med-tech company, we rely on diverse
Biomet’s efforts to broaden our representation, which we believe
total team member
perspectives to drive our business forward by identifying new
will enable us to better serve the diverse communities in which
population in the U.S.
ways to serve patients and innovative ideas to address the most
we operate. While these goals serve as measures of progress
pressing challenges facing the orthopedic profession. In our
against our efforts, Zimmer Biomet remains committed to equal
minds, equity means fairness, and we seek to ensure that our 16%
opportunity employment and does not use these goals to make
team members and the diverse communities we support are
employment decisions.
treated fairly. Inclusion means striving to make our team members director-level
feel a sense of belonging regardless of their backgrounds. These We are pleased to make available our EEO-1 information, which and above
values are reflected in our work by elevating the role of employee can be found here: link.
resource groups within Zimmer Biomet and our philanthropic Core to our values is our commitment to stand together against
support of community groups and other organizations driving hatred, discrimination and injustice. We advance these values
meaningful change. Our Vice-President of Diversity, Equity and through our actions and investments.
Inclusion maintains managerial oversight of our DEI initiatives and
Additionally, our eight global ERGs continue to contribute to the
programs.
organization. ERG membership is more than 15% of our total
We believe that representation matters. As of December 31, 2023, organization. Our ERGs also receive funding from the Zimmer
women made up 36% of our total team member population and Biomet Foundation, Inc. to support communities and partnerships
26% of positions at director-level and above. People of color aligned to our Mission. Our cultural awareness and inclusion WOMEN
(POC) made up 25% of our total team member population in the programming continues to expand and all team members have 36%
U.S. and comprised 16% of positions at director-level and above. access to DEI learning through our learning management system.
total team member
population
26%
director-level
and above
As of December 31, 2023
COMPANY OVERVIEW ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 19
RETURN TO TOC
Health, Safety & Wellness Total Rewards
The physical and mental health, safety, financial well- being and Zimmer Biomet reviews our comprehensive benefit offerings each
work/life balance of our team members are vital to accomplishing year, considering both our team member population as well as
our Mission and achieving our goals. We sponsor wellness market practices, to ensure our offerings are competitive.
programs designed to enhance physical, financial and mental MENTAL HEALTH PHYSICAL HEALTH
We understand how critical well-being is for our team members Resilience through normal stresses of Energy needed to thrive and
well-being and encourage participation in these programs and their families. Globally, initiatives are in place or being life, change and challenges complete your daily living tasks
through regular communications, educational sessions and other
implemented to reduce physical and mental health risks, improve With a focus on reducing stress With a focus on fitness,
incentives. and managing depression and anxiety nutrition and sleep
the quality of life for our team members and provide health-
As part of our tenet of holistic well-being, we have made promoting activities that support sustainable behaviors. Also, in
resources available in mental health, physical health, financial recent years, we have focused on key areas for women, family
health and social health for team members to use, both on the job and individual health.
and with their families and friends, to prioritize their well-being
Examples of benefits offered to team members include:
needs.
• Key preventive health services to team members through
Flexibility medical plans, including on-site health screenings for our PHYSICAL
team members at no charge
MENTAL
Continued workplace flexibility, in certain roles, is key in
• Competitive infertility benefits and adoption assistance,
promoting well-being. Flexible work allows our team members to
along with paid parental leave and support for parents
manage their lives, with the expectation they will experience less
transitioning back to work
stress, feel happier and more engaged in their work and be better
positioned to live healthier lives. • Resources to support individualized needs, such as
employee assistance program (EAP) counseling, tuition
One initiative that we have implemented globally is “No Meeting
reimbursement, paid Family Care Leave and benefits
Friday Afternoons.” Team members are encouraged to refrain
such as transgender surgery/medical benefits
from scheduling meetings after noon local time on Fridays.
SOCIAL
FINANCIAL
Safety
Our environmental, health and safety team continuously monitors
our safety environment. In 2023, our Total Recordable Incident
Rate, which is defined as recordable incidents multiplied by
200,000 hours worked, divided by total hours worked, was 0.23,
and our Lost Time Incident Rate, which is defined as lost time
incidents multiplied by 200,000 hours worked, divided by total
FINANCIAL HEALTH SOCIAL HEALTH
hours worked, was 0.13.
Confidence to manage Time and involvement with family,
everyday and future finances friends, colleagues and community.
With a focus on security, With a focus on connections,
freedom and growth relationships and support
COMPANY OVERVIEW ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20
RETURN TO TOC
Pay Equity Collective Bargaining
We are committed to ensuring our team members are Zimmer Biomet has approximately 18,000 active team members
compensated equitably and that differences are not based on globally—fewer than 100 are affiliated with a U.S. collective
factors such as gender or race. bargaining agreement.
Since 2016, we have conducted annual pay equity studies in the
Discrimination Policy
U.S. Our pay equity study focuses not only on base salary but
also on other elements, including commissions, bonus, long-term Zimmer Biomet is an equal opportunity employer and is fully
incentives and new hire sign-on awards (cash or equity). We committed to a policy of treating all team members and job
continue to refine our pay equity study each year. While the study applicants equally.
initially focused on reviewing pay differences between genders,
We take all reasonable steps to employ, train and promote
we have expanded the study to include pay disparities potentially
team members on the basis of their experience, abilities and
attributable to race and ethnicity.
qualifications without regard to – as well as to provide a work
Outside of the U.S., we conduct pay equity studies, as required, environment in which all team members are treated with respect
to ensure compliance with local laws. and dignity that is free of harassment based upon an employee’s
– race, color, ethnic origin, nationality, national origin, religion or
In all cases where a pay equity issue is identified, we follow our
belief, sex, sexual orientation, gender reassignment, age, marital
process to address the issue. Additionally, when pay disparities
or civil partnership status or disability.
are identified, they are reviewed annually to ensure progress and
permanent resolution. Zimmer Biomet does not condone any form of harassment,
whether engaged in by team members or by outside third parties
who do business with us.
COMPANY OVERVIEW ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 21
RETURN TO TOC
OUR PATIENTS AND PRODUCTS
Class 1 Class 2 Class 3 Warning Letters Warning Letters Open
Year Recalls Recalls Recalls Received Resolved Warning Letters
Product Quality
2017 1 62 0 0 1 3
Zimmer Biomet is committed to best-in-class product quality
and ensuring the strength and effectiveness of our Quality
2018 1 48 0 1 0 3
Management System (QMS). This is supported by a single
global quality management system structure, manual, and
2019 1 24 0 0 1 3
global procedures which are adopted by all ZB sites.
2020 1 21 0 0 1 2
Every site has a stringent internal quality audit program. In
addition, we have an independent corporate quality audit
2021 0 4 0 0 0 1
program which conducted 43 quality audits in 2023. ZB is
also audited periodically by external regulatory bodies such 2022 1 9 0 0 0 1
as the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and other
regulatory and nongovernmental competent authorities 2023 0 9 0 0 1 0
around the world.
Note: The recall quantities are based on the calendar year that Zimmer Biomet reported the recall to FDA
There have been Zero FDA enforcement actions taken
in 2023 in response to violations of current Good
Manufacturing Practices (cGMP). 91% of Notified Body
We have multiple manufacturing sites proactively participating in pertaining to our Warsaw Indiana North Campus facility issued in
Audits in 2023 resulted in 0 Major Findings.
the Medical Device Innovation Consortium (MDIC) and the FDA 2018 was resolved / closed in December, 2023. Warsaw Indiana
Our internal corporate quality audit and external quality Case for Quality Voluntary Improvement program. Furthermore, North Campus’ partnership with MDIC and FDA via participation
audit results are closely monitored and reported at regular we have a stringent supply chain monitoring program that in the Case for Quality ASC (Accelerate Sustainable Capability)
management review meetings, and we maintain a detailed includes quality, delivery and cost measures. Pilot Program lasted 18 months concluding in 2023. This program
set of key performance indicators in the Quality area. In accelerated our efforts to improve product quality and safety,
We have made advancements in our oversight of product quality
addition, the Quality, Regulatory and Technology Committee enable compliance actions to be closed faster, and structure
and now can track and trend product performance in near real
of the Board of Directors receives a comprehensive Quality systems for sustainable continuous improvement.
time using data visualization software. We also conduct clinical
presentation at each quarterly meeting.
trials, monitor orthopedic registries and review published Zimmer Biomet has an established and robust Postmarket
literature to ensure a complete picture of product performance. Surveillance program to collect and analyze postmarket data to
Conclusions and outputs are regularly reported out and reviewed ensure patient safety, quality, and compliance. This program
as part of trending reviews and management meetings. ensures complaints are invested and trended, coordinates
0
reporting with regulators, and implements corrective actions as
In recent years, Zimmer Biomet has made substantial progress
necessary. In 2023, Zimmer Biomet initiated 9 voluntary FDA
on quality system enhancements and remediation across our
reportable recalls and all were categorized as Class 2 by FDA.
organization. As of December 31, 2023, we have Zero pending
FDA Warning Letters at any ZB site globally. A Warning Letter
PENDING FDA WARNING LETTERS
COMPANY OVERVIEW ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 22
RETURN TO TOC
We have made significant investments in QMS remediation and To ensure full organizational alignment and commitment with
upgrades over the past several years. These enhancements Quality priorities the Corporate Bonus had a network quality
have resulted in a significant reduction in FDA product recalls modifier added to the bonus program for all employees in 2023.
compared to previous years. Performance has been stable in
the single digit range the past 3 years with 2023 at 9 recalls Supplier Code of Conduct
compared to 63 in 2017. In addition to this, the ratio of recalls
We are committed to achieving and maintaining the highest
classified by FDA per $1b in revenue declined to 1.22 in FY23
standards of corporate integrity and ethical behavior, and we
compared to 1.30 in FY22.
expect our suppliers to conduct business with the same high
The ratio of recalls classified by the FDA per $1b in revenue standards. Zimmer Biomet has instituted a Code of Supplier
declined to 1.22 in FY 2023 compared to 1.30 in FY 2022. Conduct.
Medical Device Recalls (fda.gov)
At a minimum, suppliers must conduct business in accordance
Zimmer Biomet also participates in the Medical Device Single with all applicable country, state and local laws and regulations
Audit Program (MDSAP), which enables medical device covering the jurisdictions in which they operate, including,
manufacturers to be audited once by a notified body for without limitation, laws relating to employment, human rights,
compliance with the standard and regulatory requirements of the environment, health and safety and trade. Each supplier
up to five different medical device markets: Australia, Brazil, must comply with the commercial best practices of the supplier’s
Our continuous improvement efforts are also driven by Lean and
Canada, Japan and the U.S. The MDSAP audit results are shared industry. Zimmer Biomet reserves the right to decline to deal with
Six Sigma methodologies. We provide Green Belt and Black Belt
with the regulatory agencies in the participating countries, such suppliers who do not comply with the law or our standards.
certification programs so team members learn and apply LEAN
as the FDA. In 2023, 19 MDSAP audits were conducted across
tools to reduce waste, drive out variation (by applying Define, We have also taken steps to ensure that slavery and human
the Zimmer Biomet network, resulting in continued MDSAP
Measure, Analyze, Improve and Control problem-solving) and trafficking are not taking place in our supply chains or any part
certification for all sites from our notified bodies with 58% of
make data-driven decisions through proven quality tools and of our business operations through the UK Modern Slavery Act
MDSAP audits resulting in zero findings.
statistical methods. In addition, at certain of our manufacturing of 2015 and the California Transparency in Supply Chains Act of
We are advancing automation in manufacturing, quality systems facilities, many of the team members are cross-trained to perform 2010.
and inspection and measurement methods such as Manufacturing a broad array of operations.
Supplier Social Responsibility Audits
Execution System (MES), Design Controls and Risk Management
Additionally, we are working toward compliance and certification
Software. A Product Lifecycle Management tool is amid global with the European Union Medical Device Regulation (EU MDR) Zimmer Biomet conducts Social Responsibility audits with all
implementation to simplify regulatory compliance while increasing standards and made significant progress in 2023: new suppliers in high-risk regions and on existing suppliers every
new product speed to market. Use of this tool allow resources three years. Thirty suppliers were audited in 2022 with two major
• Achieved a milestone in our EU MDR Program by
to work together across the network seamlessly and develop a findings which are now remediated. The audit investigates child
successfully submitting 100% of certificates to the Notified
unified approach to completing deliverables. labor; forced labor and human trafficking; disciplinary practices;
Body
Our Quality Begins With Me hotline process enable us to continue working hours and compensation; environmental protection;
promoting a “blame free” culture where we drive appropriate • Maintained efficiency and effectiveness in our recertification health and safety; and management practices.
processes, with an average time in line with industry
behaviors, empower team members to promote operational
benchmarks
excellence and maintain focus on quality and compliance.
COMPANY OVERVIEW ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 23
RETURN TO TOC
Supplier Diligence
For all new proposed international suppliers, the Zimmer Biomet
Compliance team conducts due diligence investigations to make
sure the third-party is not on a blocked person list, a specially
designated national watchlist or otherwise a prohibited party. This
global due diligence review starts at the front end of the request
process. Ongoing due diligence is conducted periodically for
existing suppliers.
Supplier Quality Audits
New and existing supplier audit plans are established based
on the applicable QMS requirement for the product or service
the supplier provides. QMS requirements focus on FDA and
International Organization for Standardization (ISO) standards.
These standards include FDA 21 CFR 820 and ISO 13485.
Zimmer Biomet has three global documents detailing the Supplier
Quality Audit process: 1) the Supplier Questionnaire is used
to collect a variety of information on the supplier, including
an overview of the supplier’s quality system; 2) the Supplier
Qualification Report determines which audit plan will be followed
and the supplier’s risk classification; and 3) the Supplier Audit
Report details the information found during the audit and the
attendees.
All information gathered from the auditing process is stored in
a global system and accessible to relevant team member in all
Zimmer Biomet businesses.
Supplier Diversity
We believe that a diverse supply chain strengthens our ability to
carry out our Mission and improve the communities in which we
live and work. Our Supplier Diversity Policy in the U.S. assists in
establishing and maintaining business relationships with suppliers
that are either certified in diverse categories by the Small
Business Administration or self-certified, where applicable.
COMPANY OVERVIEW ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 24
RETURN TO TOC
Our Small Business Liaison Officer (SBLO) is an administrator Management of Risks Associated with Use of
for the Supplier Diversity Program. The SBLO ensures that
Critical Materials
documentation of procurement levels, broken down by supplier
Zimmer Biomet has a Global Supply Risk Management
classification, is prepared as requested by government agencies
process. We have established a systematic approach to:
and contract groups. Annual Summary Subcontract Reports
and Year End Supplementary Small Disadvantaged Business • Ensure continuity of supply for goods and services
(SDB) Reports are submitted pursuant to requirements of the
• Proactively manage (identify, assess, mitigate and
Department of Defense.
monitor) potential supply risks which may result in
Zimmer Biomet’s diversity reporting obligations to the U.S. product delays and/or revenue impact to the business
Federal Government include spending in the U.S. and Puerto Rico
• Ensure that a global process is being utilized across the
in the following six diverse supplier categories annually:
Zimmer Biomet Global Sourcing Organization
1. Historically Underutilized Business Zone Small Business
A key component in risk monitoring is the financial impact
2. Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business that might occur in raw material scarcity and/or physical
disruptions of Zimmer Biomet’s own operations or in the
3. Small Business
operations of our supply chain. To mitigate these risks,
4. Small Disadvantaged Business
we use a third-party service provider to measure our top
5. Veteran-Owned Small Business suppliers against 73 financial ratios, weighted by 24 industry
models, using a scale of 1-100 to understand the overall
6. Women-Owned Small Business
financial health of these suppliers. If a supplier scores below
In addition, we report our supplier diversity spend to
40, it is considered to have a substantive strategic impact on
customers in proportion to their value of Zimmer Biomet’s
our business.
total U.S. sales, when requested. These additional
categories include: The third-party service provide also provides private
company financial statements and have a greater than 85%
1. Minority Owned Business
rate (and above 90% in certain markets) to measure the
2. Woman Owned (Large and Small) Business
core health of a supplier out to 36 months and predicting
In 2023, approximately 16% of our U.S. supplier spend was with probability of default more than 12 to 18 months via a
U.S. suppliers in designated diversity categories as defined in our quantitative model.
Supplier Diversity Policy.
COMPANY OVERVIEW ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 25
RETURN TO TOC
Animal Testing Policy
Zimmer Biomet’s use of animal testing is consistent with animal
welfare acts around the world. We use animal testing when
required to demonstrate biological safety for our products
that cannot be demonstrated by laboratory benchtop tests or
when required to demonstrate compliance with medical device
regulations.
The laboratories we engage for animal testing typically have
American Association for Accreditation of Laboratory Animal To protect the rights, privacy, safety and well-being of clinical trial Drug Administration Amendments Act requirements by utilizing
Care (AAALAC) certification or have their own animal research participants, Zimmer Biomet has an overarching global procedure ClinicalTrials.gov to register our active clinical studies and study
committee (i.e., an independent review committee) to ensure for conducting clinical research involving human subjects. This results once they are available. All study results are posted,
compliance with national animal welfare acts. Zimmer Biomet procedure ensures that the clinical research from our clinical trials regardless of whether the trial is deemed successful or failed to
does not perform animal testing directly; the work is contracted to is qualified and reliable and can be used by regulatory authorities meet the primary end point. A sample listing of Zimmer Biomet
approved laboratories. globally. As part of our procedures, clinical trials are reviewed clinical trials can be found at ClinicalTrials.gov.
and approved by several cross-functional internal committees,
Clinical Trial Program including a Clinical Investigation Review Committee and a Clinical Health Equity and Access to Healthcare
Research Review Committee.
We operate a robust global clinical research program in which Building on our well-established legacy of addressing healthcare
we strive to collect meaningful clinical evidence to support our Clinical trials are only approved if they are scientifically disparities through our philanthropic efforts, in 2023, we
vast portfolio of products and technologies. Our clinical research sound, meet a well-defined business need and are within fair established the Zimmer Biomet Health Equity division to integrate
programs support the safety and effectiveness of our products, market value calculations. Clinical trial support can range from health equity goals into the Company’s business strategy.
services and technologies in a compliant and transparent manner. monetary funding, providing in-kind product or even the loaning Our Corporate Governance Committee of the Board reviews
Zimmer Biomet-supported clinical trials are conducted across of specialized instrumentation and equipment. In addition to and considers our initiatives related to promoting access to
many different programs, including sponsored multi-center global the internal Zimmer Biomet review and approval processes, healthcare.
clinical trials, as well as company-supported smaller investigator- all clinical studies are required to be reviewed and approved
In 2023, the Health Equity division assembled a 12-member
initiated clinical trials. by an Institutional Review Board or Ethics Committee that is
strategic advisory board of surgeons and is currently working on
independent of both Zimmer Biomet and the participating
Zimmer Biomet conducts studies worldwide that are managed building a Community Centered Care (C3) framework which aligns
investigational centers.
by our global Clinical Affairs teams. These teams manage the interests and incentives of surgeons, hospitals, payors and
our regulated and post-market studies and are located in key the community to increase patient access to quality care within
Clinical Trial Transparency
locations across the globe. In all instances, these programs underserved communities.
and teams adhere to Zimmer Biomet policies and procedures We support clinical research to foster advances in clinical
that incorporate the standards set forth in the International knowledge and furthering medical device development related to
Conference on Harmonization, the Declaration of Helsinki, Good our products and programs. Clinical trial transparency is required
Clinical Practice guidelines and the AdvaMed Code of Ethics. to appropriately contribute to and comply with the International
Committee of Medical Journal Editors initiative and Food and
COMPANY OVERVIEW ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 26
RETURN TO TOC
support orthopedic post-graduate medical education by providing including One World Surgery, Bayside Medical Missions,
funding to the following organizations: Operation Walk, Great Lakes Orthopedic Relief International,
Canvasback Missions, LIFE International and many more—to
American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons (AAHKS): AAHKS
care for underprivileged patients in need in Dominican Republic,
has a mission to advance hip and knee patient care through
Honduras, El Salvador, Tanzania, Ecuador, Uganda and beyond.
education, advocacy and research. AAHKS has established the
Fellowship Education Improvement and Innovation Program We continue to support charitable surgeries in the U.S. by
to award grants to Adult Reconstruction Fellowship Programs donating implants through Americares, a nonprofit that saves lives
and was created to help programs address various areas of and improves health for people affected by poverty or disaster so
improvement that range from advances in technology, research or they can reach their full potential. In 2023, Americares was able
patient care. to support 21 charitable surgeries in the U.S. with Zimmer Biomet
implants. This includes the support towards Operation Walk USA’s
American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons (ASES) Foundation:
annual campaign to restore mobility.
The ASES Foundation was established by the ASES to assist in
carrying out charitable and educational functions of ASES. Each
The C3 framework implements a multi-pronged executional year the ASES Foundation accepts applications for the ASES
approach that includes engaging surgeons in target communities, Foundation Fellowship Education Grant Program from ASES-
increasing minority representation among the next generation of recognized fellowship programs.
orthopaedic surgeons and forging partnerships with renowned
Zimmer Biomet also provided educational grants to support
healthcare and research institutions to collaborate on insights
independent medical education conferences that promote
and innovation to improve patient outcomes. Long-term, the
scientific knowledge, medical advancement and the delivery of
Health Equity division hopes to establish healthy living villages in
effective healthcare. In addition, we provided grants to third-
underserved communities that provide residents with access to
party organizations for independent research to advance patient
wellness services and quality medical care to holistically support
treatment designed for improved outcomes.
their health and well-being.
In February 2024, we signed the Global Health Equity Network’s Product Donations/ Medical Missions
(GHEN) Zero Health Gaps Pledge, a commitment from CEOs
Zimmer Biomet donated orthopedic products to support more
across industries and regions for their organizations to embed
than 40 philanthropic medical mission trips in 2023 to help
health equity in core strategies, operations and investments.
patients in need around the globe. The number of trips in
2023 was more than 30% higher than in 2022. We continued
Corporate Grants, Donations and Funding
our long-term partnership with Faith in Practice by donating
Zimmer Biomet is committed to our guiding principle of giving implant inventory to continually perform charitable surgeries in
back to our communities and people in need. Guatemala. Faith in Practice is committed to serving the poor
In 2023, we provided grants, donations and funding for numerous of Guatemala through short-term medical mission trips that
educational and philanthropic projects. These included grants to take an integrated approach to care that strives to reach those
in the greatest need. We supported many other organizations,
COMPANY OVERVIEW ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 27
RETURN TO TOC
FOUNDATION
The Zimmer Biomet Foundation, Inc. (Foundation) is
an independent, philanthropic, nonprofit organization
established in 2018 to address the needs of our global
community. The mission of the Foundation is to improve the
quality of life for our communities by providing resources to
build healthy communities; advance Science, Technology,
Engineering and Math (STEM) education; provide disaster
relief; and address healthcare disparities while advancing
diversity, equity and inclusion. We are proud to share
this report from the Foundation in the Zimmer Biomet
Sustainability Report.
more than 600 charities in 2023. This combined giving total was addition, team members organized several collection drives to
From supporting Zimmer Biomet team members’ charitable 20% more than in 2022. provide items needed for back-to-school efforts and provide
programs, to funding community efforts in line with its assistance to those in need during the holidays.
We proudly support team members volunteering in their
outcomes, the Foundation donated nearly
communities and abroad by offering resources to match team The Foundation continued the Zimmer Biomet Scholarship Fund
$4.5 million in charitable grants in 2023.
members with volunteer opportunities and work policies that for dependents of team members in the U.S. For the third year, 15
allow them to take the time to support their community. For recipients were selected to receive $2,500 each for educational
Zimmer Biomet Team Member Programs
example, Zimmer Biomet’s “Dollars for Doers” program enables costs toward college expenses.
The Foundation continued the Team Member Relief Fund team members to earn Foundation grants to charities by logging
to support team members facing financial hardship due to their volunteer hours. Team members who took advantage of this Healthy Communities
personal or catastrophic reasons, including Hurricanes Fiona program earned more than $35,000 in 2023 for the charities of
The Foundation and Zimmer Biomet support a number of
and Ian. Since its inception, the Fund has provided more their choice.
activities and initiatives to improve the health and wellness of
than $1.7 million in relief grants to team members.
Overall, Zimmer Biomet team members logged more than 8,900 our communities. Zimmer Biomet and the Foundation support
In addition, the Foundation matched team member community volunteer hours, helping more than 220 unique numerous organizations making a positive impact in the Warsaw
donations to nonprofit organizations with a dollar-for-dollar charities in 2023. Some of those organizations include Feed My area and in other communities in which Zimmer Biomet team
match. More than $1,100,000 combined from team member Starving Children, Prospect Hospice Limited, Habitat for Humanity members live and work, including Cardinal Services, Wings for
contributions and the Foundation match was contributed to International, Big Brothers Big Sisters and the United Way. In Life, Prospect Hospice, Boys and Girls Club, YMCA, United Way
and many more.
COMPANY OVERVIEW ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 28
RETURN TO TOC
STEM Education Zimmer Biomet is the Founding Sponsor of Nth Dimensions,
an educational nonprofit organization created to help increase
The Foundation continued support of the Indiana Chamber
diversity of women and underrepresented minorities in the field
Foundation’s Accelerating Indiana Vision 2025 program. The
of orthopedics, including pre-medical students, medical students
initiative includes several dimensions, including broadband
and residents. We are a corporate partner of the J. Robert
access, urban development, K-12 STEM curricula and
Gladden Orthopaedic Society, a multi-cultural organization with a
advancing Diversity, Equity and Inclusion. The Foundation
mission to increase diversity within the orthopedic profession. We
continued support of STEM-related activities through the
also provide support to the Ruth Jackson Orthopaedic Society,
local school system in Warsaw, Indiana, home of Zimmer
which is dedicated to advancing the science and practice of
Biomet’s global headquarters.
orthopedic surgery among women, as well as the American
Association of Latino Orthopaedic Surgeons, which represents
Disaster Relief
not only members of Latino descent, but all orthopedists
The Foundation gave $90,000 in grants to organizations who treat members of the Latino and Hispanic communities.
($40,000 to Direct Relief and $50,000 to the Red Cross), Additionally, the Zimmer Biomet Foundation supported
providing valuable response and relief efforts to those Orthopaedic Research and Education Foundation (OREF) and
affected by earthquakes in Turkey and Morocco, as well as their OREF/JRGOS Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Disparities in
victims of the Palestine/Israel conflict. Orthopaedic Health Care Research Grant.
• Nth Dimensions
Advancing Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
• Perry Initiative
The Foundation has partnered with many nonprofit
• Ruth Jackson Orthopedic Society
organizations to advance diversity, equity and inclusion,
• J. Robert Gladden Orthopaedic Society
particularly related to disparities and career development in • American Association of Latino Orthopaedic Surgeons
healthcare. Continued collaboration with Zimmer Biomet’s
global employee resource groups helped identify non-profit Movement is Life™
organizations aligned with the focus of each group and were
The Foundation continued its multi-year, multi-million-dollar
included within the Foundation’s grant giving in 2023.
commitment to Movement is Life, an independent nonprofit
We also provided funding to support programs that
organization focused on eliminating racial, ethnic and gender
promote diversity and multiculturalism in medical schools
healthcare disparities.
and in surgeon professional development, as well as
Movement is Life held its 2023 annual health equity summit in
industry minority initiatives to raise orthopedic treatment
November 2023, in Washington, DC. This event brought together
awareness and support higher education. For example we
stakeholders from diverse backgrounds to discuss health equity
provide support to The Perry Initiative, which is committed
challenges and solutions. Several Zimmer Biomet team members
to inspiring young women to be leaders in the fields of
attended the Caucus in support of efforts towards the elimination
orthopedic surgery and engineering.
of health disparities.
COMPANY OVERVIEW ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 29
RETURN TO TOC
Patient Privacy and Data Security Privacy is built into our products and services by design and by Ownership
default. By taking this approach, we accommodate privacy in an
At Zimmer Biomet, the patient is always the patient, and The patient, provider and Zimmer Biomet each have rights and
effective and user-friendly way.
never the product. Patient data is used to improve outcomes responsibilities regarding data collected during treatment.
and create value for patients and their care teams through We want to make it as easy as possible for patients to Zimmer Biomet’s customer engagements, patient consents and
our algorithms, systems and products in order to support communicate their privacy preferences. For example, our notices and other privacy and information security practices
our commitment to the highest standards of patient safety, mymobility® platform is supported with a dedicated portal are designed to ensure that these rights and responsibilities are
quality and integrity. powered by OneTrust for individuals to exercise their privacy respected.
rights. OneTrust is an industry-leading privacy management
solution.
Digital Health Product Security
Our commitment to protecting patient and customer data is
embodied in our four Privacy and Data Security Pillars: Security Zimmer Biomet’s Global Digital Health Product Security Program
is centered on enabling the efficient and effective continuous
• Privacy: Privacy is a fundamental human right, and
Zimmer Biomet implements and verifies stringent security
improvement of our Total Product Life Cycles (TPLCs) and
we maintain robust practices to ensure that privacy is
requirements to protect data we hold for patients and customers.
Software/System Development Life Cycles (SDLCs) for our
protected. Patients and customers decide what they
These include a broad array of controls, including encryption,
increasing portfolio of digital health technologies, medical
share with us.
third-party penetration testing, malware defenses, data loss
devices, products and services. This is done by integrating
• Security: Zimmer Biomet ensures the protection of prevention, access limitations and auditing. We comply with
Secure TPLC/SDLC leading practices at the forefront and
patient and customer data through robust safeguards. security requirements under the Health Insurance Portability and
throughout the lifecycles in support of our commitment to the
Among other measures, we apply encryption in transit Accountability Act (HIPAA), General Data Protection Regulation
highest standards of patient safety, quality and integrity, as well
and conduct annual security risk assessments and (GDPR), California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA), LGPD (Brazil),
as in alignment with the guidance and expectations of the FDA
penetration testing by third parties. China’s Personal Information Protection Law (PIPL) and other
and other governing bodies and agencies around the world.
key data protection regulations reviewed and verified by third-
• Data usage: We only use customer and patient data Additionally, in partnership with key cross-functional stakeholders
party experts. We are transparent with patients and customers
to provide the services we have agreed upon, and for across the global enterprise, we have achieved and sustained
regarding our security controls so that they can understand and
purposes that are compatible with providing those ISO/IEC 27001 Certification for our Surgery Planning Ecosystem
document the ways in which their information is protected.
services. for the past two years. ISO/IEC 27001 is a globally recognized
and accepted industry standard for information security
• Ownership: We put patients and customers in control
Data Usage
management systems (ISMS); and an increasing expectation of
of their data and have established tools and processes
Zimmer Biomet ensures that information is only collected, used our global customer healthcare delivery organizations (HDOs).
that give patients easy options to exercise their rights
and disclosed for permissible purposes. Through our contracts Our certification includes the Drive Case Management System
with respect to their personal data.
with customers, notice and consent forms, and other means, (DCMS), DICOM images we receive from our customers and
we are transparent about the ways we use information to create several facilities in three countries (with planned expansion) for
Privacy
value for patients and providers. We have implemented robust Patient-Specific Instruments (PSI) and Patient-Matching Implants
There have never been more opportunities to use policies, procedures and trainings designed to ensure that (PMI) (e.g., patient-specific surgical plans for our ROSA® Recon).
information collected during treatment to create innovative information about patients and customers is handled consistent
solutions to improve patient outcomes. At the same time, with those statements.
the importance of protecting patient privacy has never been
higher.
COMPANY OVERVIEW ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 30
RETURN TO TOC
Cybersecurity
A strong cybersecurity program is essential in today’s
business landscape, and we have continued to invest in
people, processes and the next generation cybersecurity
technology solutions to combat this evolving risk. Cyber
threats are emerging and evolving daily so we actively
manage these cyber-risks in alignment with industry best
practices and frameworks.
Our commitment to cybersecurity includes a programmatic
approach aiming to protect the confidentiality, integrity
and availability of our systems, data and products. This
continuous process ensures that measures are in place to
improve and update our cybersecurity program using key
methods such as independent assessments, penetration
testing, vulnerabilities scanning and maintaining key industry
certifications. Zimmer Biomet strives to ensure all third-
party vendor management, governance and data protection
programs are aligned to best practices, regulations and
standards to reduce organizational risk.
We have a dedicated global security operations team that
executes the cybersecurity incident response plan and
threat management, as well as conducts regular exercises
to ensure our preparedness and effectiveness. Our global
cybersecurity awareness program has increased awareness
of cyber threats for users, and we continue to share best
practices with all team members.
The cybersecurity program is led by Zimmer Biomet’s Chief
Information Security Officer and the Chief Information
Officer, and regular progress updates are presented to the
Audit Committee of the Board of Directors, which oversees
cybersecurity risk.
COMPANY OVERVIEW ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 31
RETURN TO TOC
2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 32
RETURN TO TOC
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
2024 Director Nominees Begley Bernard Farrell Hagemann Higgins Hilado Jafry Kolli Shapiro Tornos
We are committed to effective corporate governance,
Skills and Experience
adhering to the highest ethical standards and acting as
Sitting CEO of Medical Device
a responsible member of our communities. Our business ● ●
Company
is managed under the direction of our Board of Directors,
which has responsibility for establishing broad corporate Sitting CEO or Global Business Head ● ●
policies and for our overall performance.
Prior CEO or Global Business Head ● ● ● ● ●
As of March 17, 2024, our Board is made up of 11
directors; the Board nominated ten to stand for election Operations Experience ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ●
as directors at our May 2024 Annual Meeting. The ten
Healthcare Industry Experience ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ●
director nominees were nominated based on their skills,
experiences, backgrounds and the needs of the Board
Medical Device Industry Experience ● ● ● ● ● ●
and our Company. Every director must stand for election
annually. At all times, a majority of the Board of Directors International Expertise ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ●
must meet the criteria for independence established by
FDA Experience ● ● ● ● ● ● ●
applicable laws and regulations and the New York Stock
Exchange. All our directors, except our Director, President
R&D Experience ● ● ● ● ●
and Chief Executive Officer, are independent.
Government / Regulatory Affairs /
● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ●
Health Economics Experience
Brand / Marketing Experience ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ●
M&A Experience ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ●
Financial Expertise ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ●
Race, ethnicity, gender and LGBTQ+ status are self-reported by directors
Digital Technology Expertise ● ●
in their annual directors’ and officers’ questionnaires. Diversity, equity and
inclusion data is not standardized and director responses are not required.
Cybersecurity Expertise ● ●
A mark indicates a specific area of focus or expertise that the director
brings to our Board. The matrix above does not encompass all of the Demographics
knowledge, skills and experience of our directors, and the fact that a
particular knowledge, skill or experience is not listed does not mean that
a director does not possess it. In addition, the absence of a particular Gender M F M M M F M F M M
knowledge, skill or experience with respect to any of our directors does
not mean the director in question is unable to contribute to the decision- Racially/Ethnically Diverse ● ● ● ●
making process in that area.
LGBTQ+ ●
COMPANY OVERVIEW ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 33
RETURN TO TOC
Ethical Business Conduct This includes a Global Compliance Steering Committee, where
executive leaders develop and oversee the execution of a
As a leader in ethics and compliance, we are committed
multi-year Compliance Strategy and Sustainability Plan. Cross-
to conducting business with honesty, integrity and the
functional subcommittees focused on finance, IT and policies
highest ethical standards. It is the right thing to do and helps
ensure broad engagement in Compliance matters. The Board of
protect the Company and our Mission. Whether working with
Directors and executive leadership provide program oversight
surgeons, regulators, distributors, partners or each other,
and are actively engaged during quarterly Audit Committee and
our team members know that how they contribute to our
leadership meetings.
Mission is as important as what they do.
Additional governance structures help advance the Compliance
strategy globally and serve to prevent and detect violations of our
A Comprehensive Compliance Program
business standards. These committees include:
Our best-in-class Global Compliance Program is designed
• The Global Arrangements Review Committee: Responsible
to prevent and detect potential violations of applicable
for ensuring all engagements with healthcare professionals
laws, regulations and industry codes. The Global Chief
(HCP) are free from potential conflicts of interest.
Compliance Officer leads the function and provides overall
management of the program. She reports directly to the • The Product Development and Evaluation Review
President and Chief Executive Officer, co-equal with other Committee: Responsible for the review of all proposals
functional department leaders. related to HCP involvement in new technologies.
Our global Compliance team consists of 80 highly skilled • The Clinical Research Review Committee: Responsible for
and dedicated lawyers and compliance professionals, evaluating proposals and determining the needs of the
located in countries around the world. The three regional Company with respect to the ongoing clinical evaluation and
compliance teams support Zimmer Biomet’s commercial clinical science of our products.
interests in the Americas; Asia Pacific (APAC); and Europe,
Middle East, & Africa (EMEA), while global compliance Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
teams handle proactive risk assessments, compliance
We expect every team member and business partner to conduct
operations, investigations, audit and monitoring, third-party
their work with honesty, integrity and world-class ethical
due diligence, trade compliance and overall compliance
standards.
program management. We ensure all team members receive
the training, tools, guidance and resources necessary to The Zimmer Biomet Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (the
perform their jobs in a legal, ethical and compliant manner. Code) defines the expectations for how we can deliver high
performance with high integrity and articulates the ethical
Our compliance program governance framework ensures
standards that we are accountable for upholding. To ensure team
that the Board of Directors, executive and functional
members and business partners have access to the Code in their
leadership have a shared purpose and role in sustaining,
preferred language, it has been translated into 30 languages, all
implementing and enhancing the program.
are available online at zimmerbiomet.com.
COMPANY OVERVIEW ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 34
RETURN TO TOC
Zimmer Biomet requires all newly hired or acquired team external speakers, meet-and-greet events with compliance ethical standards.
members to complete the Code training within the first 60 days team members, competitive compliance contests across various
We have established a consistent approach for creating,
of employment. All tenured team members must also be retrained countries and educational trivia contests.
structuring and maintaining these policies and procedures. All
annually. The training is interactive and designed to be time-
Integrity in Action Awards Program: We regularly recognize the new or modified policies, procedures, work instructions and
efficient, while still providing up-to-date content on company
exceptional efforts of team members who go above and beyond forms are reviewed and approved by the cross-functional Policy
policies, laws, regulations and applicable industry codes of ethics
to uphold our standards and protect the company. Committee. The Committee reviews the plans to roll-out the
as well as information on how to navigate ethical dilemmas. The
policy documents and any other guidance, communication or
Each quarter, our regional compliance teams, in consultation with
course is available in 16 languages and includes our Conflicts of
training that is in scope for each respective document, with a
the respective region or business unit leadership teams, name
Interest certification.
special focus on gatekeeper functions.
team members who have gone above and beyond to uphold our
In 2023, 100% of our global team members and Zimmer Biomet’s
standards. The Global Chief Compliance Officer selects one All non-QMS policies are stored in a central repository on Zimmer
Board of Directors successfully completed the Code of Business
winner annually as the global winner. Biomet’s intranet where they are organized by function. Each
Conduct and Ethics training.
document is translated, as needed, to avoid linguistic barriers.
Compliance Team of the Year: Team efforts are celebrated
As a result of these efforts, our document control systems have
annually with the Compliance Team of the Year award,
A Strong Culture of Ethics and Integrity
become better organized with fewer version-control issues and
recognizing a region or business team for their efforts to role
All team members play an important role in upholding our model the Company’s commitment to world-class integrity and improved alignment with policy training and communications.
ethical standards, which is why our commitment to integrity is ethical business practices; complete certain compliance strategic
Continuous Improvement of the Compliance
frequently discussed at the start of meetings, whether internal or priorities, such as training completion and timely remediation; and
external. Our “commit slide” emphasizes Zimmer Biomet’s guiding other team actions that go above and beyond the compliance Program
principles, including our commitment to prioritizing patient safety program requirements. We are dedicated to the continuous improvement of our
and adhering to our global business policies, laws, regulations
Team Member Feedback: We gather feedback and measure compliance program in response to the Company’s growth
and industry codes of ethics.
the effectiveness of our efforts to increase awareness and and evolving external environment. We have established a
Some of the initiatives that help raise awareness and understanding by including targeted questions in the annual formal continuous improvement protocol built into the overall
understanding about ethics and compliance across our company Zimmer Biomet team member engagement survey. Responses Compliance Strategy and Sustainability Plan to define, monitor
include: provide insight into team member experiences and identify and execute improvement projects across the compliance
Compliance Week: Annually we host “Compliance Week” to strengths and areas of opportunity. In 2023, 87% of survey landscape. The continuous improvement protocol protects the
show our commitment to ethical business practices and promote respondents gave a favorable rating for how the Company sustainability of our compliance program and ensures we stay
our compliance program. Through engaging activities and communicates our commitment and expectations around ethical agile in order to respond to new areas of risk.
communications, we aim to strengthen our compliance culture responsibilities and conduct. Each year, we conduct a self-assessment of the compliance
and inform team members about available resources. program’s strength against the U.S. Department of Justice
(DOJ) guidance on effective compliance programs. Biannually,
The 2023 theme was “Winning with Integrity,” which served to
Consistent Global Approach to Policy Management the program undergoes specific reviews at the direction and
remind team members of the importance to do the right thing
oversight of the Compliance leadership team and Global
every day, so we can deliver on our Mission and business goals Comprehensive compliance policies and procedures help team
Compliance Steering Committee.
compliantly. Team members took part in numerous in-person members and business partners navigate the applicable laws,
and virtual activities including discussions with leaders and regulations and industry codes, as well as Zimmer Biomet’s own
COMPANY OVERVIEW ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 35
RETURN TO TOC
Countering Corruption partners are meeting our high ethical standards. The Check-in another team member or a third-party vendor or distributor,
program provides greater visibility into changes that may affect falsification of documents or misuse of Zimmer Biomet resources.
We have strong anti-bribery, anti-corruption and conflicts of
our assessment of third-party risks and identifies important
interest policies and procedures that cover, among other things, The Speak Up Hotline is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
updates to our business partners’ records. In 2023, 100% of
interactions with healthcare professionals, healthcare providers Global direct-dial telephone numbers and local language website
required Third Party Check-ins were completed.
and government officials. These policies and procedures are capabilities, along with texting options in some geographic
reinforced by a robust, interactive, annual training program. In We also have an audit program that assesses and evaluates locations, empower team members and business partners to
2023, 100% of Zimmer Biomet team members completed the compliance with Zimmer Biomet policies and procedures, as report in a language that they are most comfortable.
annual Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption training. well as any applicable laws and regulations, by our third-party In addition to the Speak Up Hotline, concerns can be raised
business partners, including distributors, sales agents, customs
We also periodically monitor and audit to ensure team members directly to managers, Compliance or Human Resources business
brokers and travel agents.
are adhering to our policies. Zimmer Biomet has a zero-tolerance partners.
policy when it comes to bribery and corruption. Our dedicated Compliance Audit team, comprised of experienced Retaliation against anyone who makes a good faith report of
forensic examiners, conduct audits pursuant to standardized
The Global Third-Party Compliance team supports and monitors a known or suspected compliance or legal issue is prohibited.
protocols and report findings to the relevant regional and
business partners, such as distributors, to make sure they uphold Retaliation in any form is unacceptable and not tolerated at
global functions. The reports include observations, findings
our ethical standards. The team is comprised of experienced Zimmer Biomet.
and root cause analysis, as well as management action plans to
compliance professionals focused on supporting and managing The Speak Up Hotline and our commitment to nonretaliation
mitigate any identified risk. The audit team works with our third-
the due diligence process for all business partners in the regions is regularly promoted through global, regional and local
party business partners as well as team members responsible
for which they are responsible, leveraging relevant language communications, leadership messages and displayed on signage
for managing the relationships to ensure completion of the
expertise and market knowledge to identify and evaluate at Zimmer Biomet facilities.
remediation items. In 2023, the audit team conducted 15 third-
compliance risks identified through our due diligence process.
party audits, with a particular focus on high-risk business The Global Compliance Investigations team, reports to the Vice
They report to the Vice President and Deputy Chief Compliance
partners. To ensure transparency and accountability, the Audit President and Deputy Chief Compliance Officer and is led by
Officer.
Committee of the Board of Directors receives all audit reports, experienced anti-corruption investigators who manage and
Prior to engaging certain types of high-risk third parties, and updates on audit findings and the status of action plans. conduct all compliance investigations. The team also has a
periodically during our relationship with these third parties, we dedicated manager to triage and track all reported compliance
perform anti-corruption due diligence as well as third-party Speak Up: Zimmer Biomet’s Whistleblower concerns from investigation to resolution.
compliance audits. Our due diligence process integrates input Program
We have a robust process to cover the entire lifecycle of
from our commercial, finance and compliance stakeholders, as
Team members and business partners have a responsibility, as an investigation—from initiation through fact finding and
well as third-party partners and background reports. A risk matrix
outlined in the Code, to speak up when they become aware of remediation. Global and regional remediation committees
determines the depth of the reports and dictates how often
behavior that may be in violation of Zimmer Biomet’s policies, handle recommending and implementing disciplinary measures
partners must undergo renewal due diligence.
applicable laws or industry practices. and remediation actions resulting from investigations. These
As part of every due diligence process, business partners certify committees use a disciplinary matrix to ensure fair and equal
Our Speak Up Hotline can be used to confidentially and
their adherence to the Code, complete mandatory compliance application of disciplinary measures across the Company. In fact,
anonymously ask questions or report a concern about a known
training and complete an anti-corruption certification. last year 100% of all corrective actions assigned were in line with
or potential violation, concerns about safety in the workplace,
The execution of the annual Third Party Check-in Program helps the guidance of the matrix.
potential discrimination or harassment, unethical behavior by
to strengthen these trusted relationships and verify that our
COMPANY OVERVIEW ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 36
RETURN TO TOC
Our process also ensures that remediation is rooted in a thorough
analysis of underlying causes and is implemented in a manner
that yields benefits across the entire organization. In 2023, 100%
of remediation activities from compliance investigations, audits
and monitoring were successfully completed.
For added accountability, the Audit Committee of our Board
of Directors receives regular reports on hotline complaints,
investigations and corrective actions.
Ethical Marketing
We remain committed to marketing our products and services
truthfully, responsibly and professionally. We engage in marketing
activities, when appropriate, to announce the availability of new
products and services, reinforce existing customer choices,
differentiate our products and services from others in the
marketplace and increase awareness of medical technologies
and treatments among healthcare professionals (HCPs), patients
and others. The advertisement and promotion of our products is
subject to internal preapproval processes, including approval by
Legal and Regulatory Affairs.
We do not engage in activities that promote HCPs or their
institutions. Activities related to HCPs must follow applicable legal
and regional practices and meet fair market value requirements.
Marketing activities must have a commercially reasonable and
legitimate business purpose, and cannot involve cash, fees or
other forms of compensation provided directly or indirectly to
HCPs or public officials. Marketing activities are also expected
to be separate from company sponsored training or education
programs.
We do not use marketing to improperly influence the purchasing,
leasing, recommendation, use, prescription or coverage decisions
associated with our products and services.
COMPANY OVERVIEW ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 37
RETURN TO TOC
Compliance with Industry Codes • APOMED (Portugal) • Japan Federation of Medical Devices Associations
(JFMDA) (Japan)
• ARTED (Turkey)
We adhere to the advertising and marketing practices outlined
• Medical Technology Association of New Zealand (MTANZ)
in our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and our Global • Austromed (Austria)
(New Zealand)
Procedure on Marketing. We also comply with widely recognized • beMedTech (Belgium)
• Medical Technology Industry Group (Singapore)
industry codes that ensure relationships with HCPs and other
• BVMed (Germany)
• Medicoindustrien (Denmark)
customers are conducted transparently and in accordance with
• CANIFARMA (Mexico)
the highest ethical standards. • Medtech Committee of American Chamber of Commerce,
• Confindustria dispositivi medici (Italy) India (AMCHAM, India)
These codes preserve and promote the industry’s ability to
• CZECHMED (Czech Republic) • MedTech Europe
collaborate with HCPs and aim to clarify and distinguish between
appropriate and inappropriate HCP/company conduct. • EuroCham Vietnam’s Medican Devices and Diagnostics • MedTech (Sweden)
Sector Committee
• Nefemed (Netherlands)
We strongly endorse the spirit and the letter of the following
• Fenin (Spain)
codes for associations where Zimmer Biomet is a member: • POLMED (Poland)
• Greek National Organization for Medicines - EOF (Greece)
• ABHI (UK) • Salib-MedTech (Finland)
• IMEDA (CIS)
• ABIMED Code of Conduct (Brazil) • SAMED (South Africa)
• Instituto Ética Saúde (Brazil)
• ABIMO (Brazil) • SKMED (Slovakia)
• Korea Medical Devices Industry Association (KMDIA) (Korea)
• ABRAIDI (Brazil) • SNITEM (France)
• Malaysia Medical Device Association (Malaysia)
• AdvaMed China (China) • Swedish MedTech (Sweden)
• Mecomed (Middle East)
• AdvaMed India (India) • Swiss Medtech (Switzerland)
• Medical Technology Association of Australia (MTAA)
• AdvaMed (United States) (Australia) • Taiwan Advanced Medical Technology Association Code of
Ethics (TAMTA, Taiwan)
• AFPM (Romania) • Medical Technology Association of India (India)
• Thai Medical Device Technology Industry Association
• American Chamber of Commerce, India (AMCHAM, India), • Medical Technology Association of Japan (Japan) (Thailand)
MedTech Committee (India)
• Japan Fair Trade Council of the Medical Devices
• American Medical Devices and Diagnostics Manufacturers’ Industry (Japan)
Association (Japan)
COMPANY OVERVIEW ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 38
RETURN TO TOC
Zimmer Biomet’s Statement of Engagement on Specific Policies of Interest: To assist with this work, we occasionally contract with private
firms specializing in government affairs advocacy. These firms
Public Policy Issues
• Corporate Tax Policy: We support tax policies around the
provide the organization with expertise on issues that are
world that ensure a globally competitive system for U.S.
We operate in a heavily regulated global marketplace, and it
important to our business and our shareholders.
businesses.
is important to be able to express our views on a variety of
In compliance with the U.S. Lobbying Disclosure Act, Zimmer
proposals to policymakers and other stakeholders in a transparent • Stability in Payment Policies: As innovation in medical
Biomet files quarterly reports with the U.S. Congress describing
manner. These efforts include monitoring public policy proposals, technology changes the way care is delivered, we support
our advocacy activities in Washington, D.C. and the amount of
analyzing these proposals and advocating for those policies that payment and reimbursement policies that ensure stability
money spent each quarter to support these activities. These
enhance patient and healthcare provider access to innovative and access for patients, providers, innovators and the entire
reports also include the cost of maintaining the Government
technologies to treat debilitating joint pain and musculoskeletal healthcare ecosystem.
Affairs office in Washington, D.C. and the portion of our trade
conditions.
• Diversity, Equity and Inclusion: We support policies that association dues associated with advocacy activities. To view
Zimmer Biomet is committed to participating meaningfully and strengthen a diverse and inclusive medical technology and our quarterly lobbying expenditures, click on the link above and
responsibly in the public policy process. Government policy healthcare workforce and ensure equitable patient access to search for Zimmer Biomet under registrant.
proposals to regulate the healthcare system may directly affect innovative devices and therapies.
Among other things, the Code makes clear that illegal payments
our business and the incentives for innovation. There are also
• Medical Device User Fee Amendments (MDUFA): We of any kind (monetary or otherwise) to an individual or entity—
important policy proposals that can further our business interests,
support a well-resourced and well-functioning U.S. FDA. including officials or employees of national, state, local or foreign
including those of our shareholders.
The long-standing user fee program has helped FDA make governments or national or foreign political candidates—at any
We actively seek to inform the debate on these proposals in the significant improvements to the regulatory approval process time or under any circumstances, are prohibited.
domestically and internationally. We also support policies that for new medical devices. Zimmer Biomet and its industry
advance the interests of patients, improve public health and trade group collaborates closely with the FDA to build a new Industry Groups and Trade Associations
promote innovation and access to healthcare. era of transparency and accountability in the program.
We are members of several industry and trade groups, with
Our engagement in the political process is focused on the • Support for International Trade Agreements: We support whom we work on a variety of issues of importance to us and the
following areas: trade policy initiatives that seek to improve access to medical device industry. These groups can help facilitate industry
• Access to musculoskeletal care medical devices in overseas export markets. consensus on policy issues and enhance effectiveness in issue
advocacy.
• Transparent, timely and science-based regulatory decision- How Zimmer Biomet Engages in Public Policy
making With Zimmer Biomet representatives on the boards and
Our primary approach to participating in public policy debate committees of industry groups and associations, we can affect
• Market-based payment or reimbursement
involves communicating information to government officials, policy or related activities. At times, we may not agree fully
• Strong protection of patents and other intellectual property public policy makers and their staffs. Our Government Affairs with the views of these associations or their individual member
rights office in Washington, D.C. is responsible for advocacy activities companies; in such instances, we reserve the right to remove our
• Open and competitive access to international markets with the U.S. Congress and the Executive Branch, as well as company from related association or industry group activities, as
advocacy at the state level. The Government Affairs office, appropriate.
• Tax policies that support innovation and global
which also has staff outside the U.S., reports to the Senior Vice
competitiveness Following is a list of U.S. industry and trade groups of which
President and General Counsel.
Zimmer Biomet is a member and for which we pay at least
• A resilient global heathcare supply chain
COMPANY OVERVIEW ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 39
RETURN TO TOC
$25,000 per year in membership fees, with the percentage The Z-PAC contributes to candidates and political committees on
of fees attributable to non-tax deductible, federal lobbying a bi-partisan basis and does not make contributions in connection
expenditures noted in italics: with U.S. Presidential Elections. Contribution decisions are not
made to reflect the personal political views or interests of senior
• Advanced Medical Technology Association
management. In deciding whom to support, consideration is
(AdvaMed) – 10%
given to candidates who represent the communities Zimmer
• Medical Device Competitiveness Coalition
Biomet serves, those who serve on relevant committees or in
(MDCC) – 100%
leadership and those who have shown support for policies and
• U.S. Chamber of Commerce – 20-25% initiatives of importance to the U.S. In addition, when considering
contributions to candidates who fit the above criteria, we
Political Contributions consider our corporate values, such as our position on diversity,
equity and inclusion.
Our policies prohibit contributions of corporate funds to
candidates, political party committees and political action Contributions made by the Z-PAC are, as required by law,
committees. Contributions by Zimmer Biomet’s Political Action reported in filings with the Federal Election Commission (FEC).
Committee (Z-PAC) – which is supported entirely by voluntary The most recent FEC report is available here.
contributions made by eligible employees and non-employee
directors–support candidates, parties or committees whose views
on specific issues are consistent with our priorities. The Z-PAC is
governed by an Advisory Committee consisting of representatives
from across the Company’s U.S. business units and business
functions. The Advisory Committee reviews Z-PAC activities and
establishes policies and priorities.
COMPANY OVERVIEW ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 40
RETURN TO TOC
2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 41
RETURN TO TOC
Report of Independent Accountants substantially less in extent than, an examination, the objective measurement uncertainty because of such things as GHG
of which is to obtain reasonable assurance about whether emissions factors that are used in mathematical models to
To the Board of Directors of Zimmer Biomet Holdings, Inc.
management’s assertion is fairly stated, in all material respects, in calculate GHG emissions, and the inability of these models, due to
order to express an opinion. Accordingly, we do not express such incomplete scientific knowledge and other factors, to accurately
We have reviewed the accompanying management assertion of an opinion. Because of the limited nature of the engagement, the measure under all circumstances the relationship between
Zimmer Biomet Holdings, Inc. (the “Company”) that the Scope 1 level of assurance obtained in a review is substantially lower than various inputs and the resultant GHG emissions. Environmental
and Scope 2 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions metrics (metrics) the assurance that would have been obtained had an examination and energy use data used in GHG emissions calculations are
for the year ended December 31, 2023 in management’s assertion been performed. We believe that the review evidence obtained subject to inherent limitations, given the nature and the methods
are presented in accordance with the assessment criteria set is sufficient and appropriate to provide a reasonable basis for our used for measuring such data. The selection by management of
forth in management’s assertion. The Company’s management is conclusion. different but acceptable measurement techniques could have
responsible for its assertion and for the selection of the criteria, resulted in materially different amounts or metrics being reported.
We are required to be independent and to meet our other ethical
which management believes provide an objective basis for
responsibilities in accordance with relevant ethical requirements As discussed in management’s assertion, the Company has
measuring and reporting on the metrics. Our responsibility is to
related to the engagement. estimated GHG emissions for certain emissions sources for which
express a conclusion on management’s assertion based on our
no primary usage data is available.
The firm applies the Statements on Quality Control Standards
review.
established by the AICPA. Based on our review, we are not aware of any material
Our review was conducted in accordance with attestation
modifications that should be made to the Company’s
The procedures we performed were based on our professional
standards established by the American Institute of Certified
management assertion in order for it to be fairly stated.
judgment. In performing our review, we performed inquiries,
Public Accountants (AICPA) in AT-C section 105, Concepts
performed tests of mathematical accuracy of computations on a
Common to All Attestation Engagements, and AT-C section 210,
sample basis, read relevant policies to understand terms related
Review Engagements. Those standards require that we plan and
to relevant information about the metrics, reviewed supporting
perform the review to obtain limited assurance about whether
documentation in regard to the completeness and accuracy of the
any material modifications should be made to management’s
data in the metrics, and performed analytical procedures.
assertion in order for it to be fairly stated. The procedures Florham Park, New Jersey
performed in a review vary in nature and timing from, and are GHG emissions quantification is subject to significant inherent April 29, 2024
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP | 400 Campus Drive, Florham Park, NJ 07932 | T: (973) 236 4000 | www.pwc.com/us
COMPANY OVERVIEW ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 42
RETURN TO TOC
ZIMMER BIOMET
MANAGEMENT ASSERTION
Overview
With respect to the Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse gas
(GHG) emissions metrics (metrics) reported by Zimmer
Biomet Holdings, Inc. (the “Company”) for the year ended
December 31, 2023 and presented in Table 2 below, the
Company’s management asserts that such metrics are
presented in accordance with the assessment criteria set
forth below.
Management is responsible for the completeness, accuracy,
and validity of the metrics and for the selection of the
criteria, which management believes provide an objective
basis for measuring and reporting on the metrics.
COMPANY OVERVIEW ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 43
RETURN TO TOC
Organizational Boundary Table 1: Description of Company sites
The Company uses the operational control approach (as Site Type Site Activities
discussed in the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and
Manufacturing Manufacture products, including orthopedic implants, orthopedic
Reporting Standard, see footnote 1 below), to account for and
instruments, surgical equipment, surgical products and tools, and robotics.
report its metrics. This approach includes sites identified in Table
Distribution (Node 1) Store and distribute products and materials.
1 below. The following type of sites are excluded from the metrics:
commercial or sales sites, storage of non-product materials, field Warsaw, Indiana North and West Campuses All buildings constituting part of our Warsaw, Indiana North Campus and West
inventory storage (node 2), 3rd party logistics facilities, residential Campus that manufacture, distribute and or store products and materials, as
structures and sub-leased facilities.
well as building structures that support manufacturing, distribution, product
See footnote 7 below for the methodology used for acquired and and material storage, office structures, hotel and hangar.
divested sites
Table 2: Metrics – GHG Emissions
GHG Emissions Metric1,2,3,6,7 Site Activities
Scope 1 GHG Emissions4 10,615 Metric Tons CO e
2
Direct GHG emissions from natural gas,
propane and diesel consumption at the sites
defined in Table 1.
Scope 2 GHG Emissions (location-based)5 117,674 Metric Tons CO e
2
Indirect GHG emissions from the generation
of electricity purchased by the Company for
use at the sites defined in Table 1.
Scope 2 GHG Emissions (market-based)5 72,379 Metric Tons CO e
2
Indirect GHG emissions from the generation
of electricity purchased by the Company for
use at the sites defined in Table 1.
COMPANY OVERVIEW ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 44
RETURN TO TOC
GHG Emissions Disclosures updated annually where applicable. Carbon dioxide
equivalent (CO e) emissions are inclusive of carbon
2
1. The Company considers the principles and guidance of the
dioxide (CO ), nitrous oxide (N O), and methane (CH4).
2 2
World Resources Institute (WRI) and the World Business
Hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) and perfluorocarbons (PFCs)
Council for Sustainable Development’s (WBCSD) The
are emitted but excluded from our reporting. Sulfur
Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and
hexafluoride (SF6) and nitrogen trifluoride (NF3) are not
Reporting Standard, Revised Edition, and GHG Protocol
emitted by the Company. Emissions data by individual
Scope 2 Guidance: An amendment to the GHG Protocol
gas is not disclosed as a majority of CO e relates to CO .
2 2
Corporate Standard (together the “GHG Protocol”) to guide
the criteria to assess, calculate and report GHG emissions. 4. Related to Scope 1 GHG emissions:
2. GHG emissions quantification is subject to significant • Natural gas:
inherent measurement uncertainty because of such things a. Combustion from stationary equipment and
as GHG emissions factors that are used in mathematical machinery at the Company’s sites.
models to calculate GHG emissions, and the inability of
b. Global natural gas usage data was collected from
these models, due to incomplete scientific knowledge and
monthly utility invoices obtained from third-party
other factors, to accurately measure under all circumstances
providers or based on an annual summary report
the relationship between various inputs and the resultant
obtained from said third-party providers.
GHG emissions. Environmental and energy use data used
in GHG emissions calculations are subject to inherent c. Where utility invoices for a period or an annual
limitations, given the nature and the methods used for summary report were not available, one of the
measuring such data. The selection by management of following approaches was utilized to estimate usage:
different but acceptable measurement techniques could
i. Consistent with prior year, for sites where
have resulted in materially different amounts or metrics
utility invoices were not available for certain
being reported.
periods, usage was estimated by determining
3. Actual or estimated energy and fuel usage from emissions an average usage based on available invoices
sources is utilized for calculating emissions. The usage from other periods for the relevant utility and
is multiplied by the relevant emission factor and global the site.
warming potential (GWP). A general formula for calculating
ii. Beginning in 2023, for sites where utility
emissions is:
invoices or an annual summary report was
• Usage x Emission Factor x Global Warming Potential = not available, usage was estimated using
Metric Tons CO e Emissions. intensity factors from the United States (U.S.)
2
Energy Information Administration (EIA) 2018
• GHG emissions are calculated in metric tons of CO
2 Commercial Buildings Energy Consumption
equivalents (or “CO e”) using the GWP taken from the
2 Survey (CBECS). To extrapolate usage, the
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Sixth
intensity factors were selected based on
Assessment Report (AR6 – 100 year). CO e emissions
2 the building activity subcategories and were
are calculated by multiplying actual or estimated energy
multiplied by the square footage in the lease
and fuel usage by the relevant emission factor and
agreement to determine annual usage.
GWP of the subject gases. All emission factors are
COMPANY OVERVIEW ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 45
RETURN TO TOC
• Propane and diesel: ii. Beginning in 2023, for sites where utility be retired before June 30th, 2024. Any remaining
invoices or an annual summary report were electricity usage not associated with the VPPA or
a. Combustion from emergency and portable
not available, usage was estimated using Green Power Contract was converted to emissions
generators, powered industrial vehicles (e.g.,
intensity factors from the U.S. EIA 2018 CBECS using the supplier specific, residual mix or grid-
forklifts), and temporary space heaters used at sites.
and following the process described above in average emission factors as described below.
b. Global propane and diesel usage data was collected footnote 4.
i. The Company used supplier specific emission
from invoices and fuel reports obtained from third-
• Estimated emissions from purchased electricity account factors for electricity when available.
party providers or based on an annual summary
for less than 1% of the reported Scope 2 GHG location-
report obtained from said third-party providers. ii. The Company used the following residual
based and market-based emissions.
mix emission factors for electricity for sites
c. No estimates were necessary for global propane
• Scope 2 GHG emissions excluded: in Europe: Association of Issuing Bodies (AIB)
and diesel usage as actual usage data was available
for each site. a. Emissions from steam, heating, and cooling. European Residual Mixes Emission Factors
2022 (June 2023).
• Estimated emissions from natural gas account for less 6. The Company used the following emission factors per
than 1% of the reported Scope 1 GHG emissions. emission type and source in the calculation of Scope 1 and iii. The Company used the location-based
Scope 2 GHG emissions: emission factors if a supplier specific or
• Scope 1 GHG emissions excluded: residual mix emission factor was not available.
• Scope 1 GHG emissions: U.S. Environmental Protection
a. Mobile combustion: Combustion from the operation Agency (EPA) Center for Corporate Climate Leadership, 7. The methodology used for acquired/divested sites is as
of the Company’s diesel and gasoline global vehicle Emissions Factors for Greenhouse Gas Inventories follows:
fleet and aviation fuel from the operation of aircraft
(February 2024) • In 2023, Zimmer Biomet acquired Embody, Inc. which
used for Company business.
• Scope 2 GHG emissions (location-based): added a new site in Norfolk, Virginia. Scope 1 and Scope
b. Fugitive emissions (e.g., refrigerants). 2 GHG emissions for this site have been included in
a. U.S.: U.S. EPA Emissions & Generation Resource
5. Related to Scope 2 GHG emissions: our 2023 GHG emissions beginning from the date of
Integrated Database (eGrid) subregion emission
acquisition in February 2023.
• Purchased Electricity: factors with 2022 data (January 2024).
• In 2023, there have been no divestitures of lines of
a. GHG emissions from the generation of electricity b. All other countries: International Energy Agency
business.
purchased by the Company for use at the (IEA) Emissions Factors 2021 (September 2023)
Company’s sites.
• Scope 2 GHG emissions (market-based):
b. Global electricity usage data was collected from
a. The Company has two contractual instruments for
monthly utility invoices obtained from third-party
renewable electricity procurement: 1) Virtual Power
providers or based on an annual summary report
Purchase Agreement (VPPA) to purchase renewable
obtained from said third-party providers.
energy credits (RECs) to be applied to cover
c. Where utility invoices for a period or an annual electricity usage at U.S. sites and 2) Green Power
summary report were not available, one of the Contract to purchase renewable energy for one
following approaches was utilized to estimate usage: specific site for the period June 25, 2022 through
June 24, 2023 for which the kilowatt hours (kWh)
i. Consistent with prior year, for sites where
have been applied to reporting year January 1,
utility invoices were not available for certain
2023 through December 31, 2023. The RECs applied
periods, usage was estimated by determining
in calculating Scope 2 (market-based) emissions
an average usage based on available invoices
for fiscal year 2023 have been contracted and will
from other periods for the relevant utility and
the site.
COMPANY OVERVIEW ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 46
RETURN TO TOC
2023 SUSTAINABILITY ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD INDEX
Topic Code SASB Metric 2023 Reporting
Affordability & Pricing HC-MS-240a.2 Description of how price information for each product is disclosed In the United States, a customer will typically engage with a local sales representative who
to customers or to their agents will work with their local office to provide pricing for products the customer is interested in
purchasing. Larger systems issue RFPs, which Zimmer Biomet responds and then enters
into a formal agreement. Pricing is communicated during the contract process and can
either be shared by hard copy (local, state, or federal government accounts), email or
through electronic interchanges.
Product Safety HC-MS-250a.1 Number of recalls issued, total units recalled 9 recalls in 2023
Product Safety HC-MS-250a.1 Number of fatalities related to products as reported in the FDA We report all necessary data as required by the U.S. FDA. This information is available at
Manufacturer and User Facility Device Experience MAUDE - Manufacturer and User Facility Device Experience (fda.gov)
Product Safety HC-MS-250a.1 Number of FDA enforcement actions taken in response to violations None
of current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP), by type
Ethical Marketing HC-MS-250a.1 Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings None
associated with false marketing claims
Ethical Marketing HC-MS-250a.1 Description of code of ethics governing promotion of off-label use Please see page 37
of products
Product Design & HC-MS-250a.1 Discussion of process to assess and manage environmental and N/A
Lifecycle Management human health considerations associated with chemicals in products,
and meet demand for sustainable products
Product Design & HC-MS-250a.1 Total amount of products accepted for takeback and reused, None
Lifecycle Management recycled, or donated, broken down by: 1) devices and equipment
and 2) supplies
COMPANY OVERVIEW ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 47
RETURN TO TOC
Topic Code SASB Metric 2023 Reporting
Supply Chain HC-MS-430a.1 Percentage of 1) entity's facilities and 2) tier I suppliers' facilities 100% of Zimmer Biomet manufacturing sites are audited by a third-party and are ISO
Management participating in third-party audit programs for manufacturing and certified. 87% of Tier 1 suppliers are audited by a third-party. The highest risk suppliers are
product quality audited by a third-party as part of their ISO certification or are audited by a Zimmer Biomet
facility. Those suppliers not participating in third-party audit programs have been vetted as
the lowest risk, given the minimal likelihood of severity to the Zimmer Biomet quality system
based on a failure of the product or service to meet specifications.
Supply Chain HC-MS-430a.2 Description of efforts to maintain traceability within the distribution Zimmer Biomet and all distributors, including all sales and office staff, are required to
Management chain implement identification and traceability controls. Distribution records must include the
customer's name, address, part number, control number, date, and quantity shipped.
The distribution record is maintained by Zimmer Biomet from the time of receipt through
storage, handling, and distribution until the product is implanted into a patient, permanently
retired from use or permanently disposed.
Supply Chain HC-MS-430a.3 Description of the management of risks associated with the use of Please see page 25
Management critical materials
Business Ethics HC-MS-510a.1 Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings None
associated with bribery or corruption
Business Ethics HC-MS-510a.2 Description of code of ethics governing interactions with health Please see page 34
care professionals
2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 48
RETURN TO TOC
Task Force on Climate-related Financial
Disclosures (TCFD)
TCFD is an industry-led task force to address concerns around
insufficient disclosure of climate-related issues. Timeframe of Strategy
In 2023, Zimmer Biomet embarked in a journey to enable the
SHORT MEDIUM LONG
TCFD framework as an internal tool to complete a risk and
0-3 years 3-5 years 5+ years
opportunity assessment and drive potential scenario analysis
towards a future TCFD-aligned disclosure. TCFD-aligned Processes & Financial Planning
• Work with internal committees/departments (ERM, finance, Funding
Following the TCFD pillars of governance, strategy, risk board) to delineate process for climate risk initiatives
management, metrics and targets, Zimmer Biomet is approaching
Organizational Owners
the journey in four phases: • Set clear responsibilities for management and execution of Engage
programmatic actions in response to climate risk assessment
• Engaging stakeholders to build consensus.; Requires
alignment with Recurring Risk Assessment &
• Assessing and identifying the most material risks and Internal or
internal Scenario Analysis External
opportunities; • Ensure ongoing analysis is scheduled and delegated
stakeholders
• Adapting business models through scenario analysis; and
Use of KPIs & Indicators
Additional
• Determine which proposed KPIs will be tracked, implement Ensure Owner Responsibility
• Building the roadmap (to the right) to identify critical next resources may internal price on carbon, and monitor changes/ongoing impact
steps for enhancing resiliency and drive consistent future be required to from climate
disclosure and reporting on climate-related risk. pursue
© 2023 Schneider Electric, All Rights Reserved | Page 9
2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 49
RETURN TO TOC
ecnanrevoG
ygetartS
tnemeganaM
ksiR
scirteM
PPhhaassee 24
Zimmer Biomet’s TCFD Roadmap
TCFD Alignment
TCFD Pillars
© 2023 Schneider Electric, All Rights Reserved | Page 9
SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT UNDER THE PRIVATE companies; the effect of the potential disruption of management’s economic conditions, including interest rate and currency exchange
SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 attention from ongoing business operations due to integration rate fluctuations; changes in general industry and market conditions,
matters related to mergers and acquisitions; the effect of mergers including domestic and international growth, inflation and currency
This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning
and acquisitions on our relationships with customers, suppliers and exchange rates; the domestic and international business impact of
of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation
lenders and on our operating results and businesses generally; political, social and economic instability, tariffs, trade restrictions and
Reform Act of 1995, including statements regarding expectations,
the ability to form and implement alliances; dependence on a embargoes, sanctions, wars, disputes and other conflicts, including
plans, intentions, strategies or prospects. We generally use the
limited number of suppliers for key raw materials and other inputs on our ability to operate in, export to or from or collect accounts
words “may,” “will,” “expects,” “believes,” “anticipates,” “plans,”
and for outsourced activities; the risk of disruptions in the supply receivable in affected countries; challenges relating to changes in
“estimates,” “projects,” “assumes,” “guides,” “targets,” “forecasts,”
of materials and components used in manufacturing or sterilizing and compliance with governmental laws and regulations affecting
“sees,” “seeks,” “should,” “could,” “would,” “predicts,” “potential,”
our products; breaches or failures of our information technology our U.S. and international businesses, including regulations of the
“strategy,” “future,” “opportunity,” “work toward,” “intends,”
systems or products, including by cyberattack, unauthorized FDA and other government regulators relating to medical products,
“guidance,” “confidence,” “positioned,” “design,” “strive,” “continue,”
access or theft; challenges relating to changes in and compliance healthcare fraud and abuse laws and data privacy and security laws;
“look forward to” and similar expressions to identify forward-looking
with governmental laws and regulations affecting our U.S. and the success of our quality and operational excellence initiatives; the
statements. All statements other than statements of historical
international businesses, including regulations of the U.S. Food ability to remediate matters identified in inspectional observations
or current fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking
and Drug Administration(FDA) and other government regulators, or warning letters issued by the FDA and other regulators, while
statements. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs,
such as more stringent requirements for regulatory clearance of continuing to satisfy the demand for our products; product liability,
expectations and assumptions of management and are subject to
products; the outcome of government investigations; the impact intellectual property and commercial litigation losses; and the ability
significant risks, uncertainties and changes in circumstances that
of healthcare reform and cost containment measures, including to obtain and maintain adequate intellectual property protection.
could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from the
efforts sponsored by government agencies, legislative bodies, the A further list and description of these risks and uncertainties and
forward-looking statements. These risks, uncertainties and changes
private sector and healthcare purchasing organizations through other factors can be found in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
in circumstances include, but are not limited to: competition;
reductions in reimbursement levels, repayment demands and year ended December 31, 2023, including in the sections captioned
pricing pressures; dependence on new product development,
otherwise; the impact of substantial indebtedness on our ability to “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” and “Item
technological advances and innovation; changes in customer
service our debt obligations and/or refinance amounts outstanding 1A. Risk Factors,” and our subsequent filings with the Securities and
demand for our products and services caused by demographic
under our debt obligations at maturity on terms favorable to us, Exchange Commission (SEC). Copies of these filings are available
changes, obsolescence, development of different therapies or
or at all; changes in tax obligations arising from examinations by online at www.sec.gov, www.zimmerbiomet.com or on request from
other factors; shifts in the product category or regional sales mix of
tax authorities and from changes in tax laws in jurisdictions where us. These factors should not be construed as exhaustive and should
our products and services; the effects of business disruptions; the
we do business, including those expected to occur as a result of be read in conjunction with the other cautionary statements that
risks and uncertainties related to our ability to successfully execute
the “base erosion and profit shifting” project undertaken by the are included in our filings with the SEC. Forward-looking statements
our restructuring plans; control of costs and expenses; our ability
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development and speak only as of the date they are made, and we expressly disclaim
to attract, retain and develop the highly skilled employees, senior
otherwise; challenges to the tax-free nature of the ZimVie Inc. any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking
management, independent agents and distributors we need to
(“ZimVie”) spinoff transaction and the subsequent liquidation of our statements, whether as a result of new information, future events
support our business; the possibility that the anticipated synergies
retained interest in ZimVie; the risk of additional tax liability due to or otherwise. Recipients of this report are cautioned not to rely on
and other benefits from mergers and acquisitions will not be
the recategorization of our independent agents and distributors to these forward-looking statements since there can be no assurance
realized, or will not be realized within the expected time periods; the
employees; the risk that material impairment of the carrying value that these forward-looking statements will prove to be accurate.
risks and uncertainties related to our ability to successfully integrate
of our intangible assets, including goodwill, could negatively affect This cautionary note is applicable to all forward-looking statements
the operations, products, employees and distributors of acquired
our operating results; changes in general domestic and international contained in this report.
2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 50
RETURN TO TOC
