2021
SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT
E
C
N
A
N
R
E
V
O
G
|
L
A
E C I
N O
VI S
R ONMENTA L |
Table of Contents
COMPANY PROFILE
Corporate Overview ..................................................................2 Supplier Diversity Policy ..........................................................13
Mission and Guiding Principles. .................................................2 Management of Risks Associated with Use
of Critical Materials .................................................................13
Our Sustainability Commitment ................................................2
Animal Testing Policy ...............................................................13
Our Approach to ESG .................................................................3
Clinical Trial Program ...............................................................13
COVID-19 ...................................................................................5
Clinical Trial Transparency .......................................................14
Grants, Donations and Funding ...............................................14
ENVIRONMENTAL
Zimmer Biomet Foundation .................................................14
Environmental Risk Management Policy ....................................6
Zimmer Biomet Medical Missions ........................................15
Compliance ...........................................................................6
Zimmer Biomet Corporate Grants ........................................15
Continuous Improvement ......................................................6
Advancing Diversity, Equity and Inclusion ...........................16
Business Integration ..............................................................6
Access to Healthcare ...............................................................16
Environment & Climate Change .............................................6
Movement is Life ..................................................................16
Health & Safety ......................................................................6
Patient Privacy and Data Security ............................................17
Communication & Education .................................................6
Privacy ................................................................................17
Environmental Targets ..............................................................7
Data Security .......................................................................17
Data Usage ..........................................................................17
SOCIAL
Ownership ...........................................................................17
Talent ........................................................................................8
Cybersecurity ..........................................................................18
Culture Promises .......................................................................8
Team Member Engagement .......................................................8
GOVERNANCE
Performance Management ........................................................8
Corporate Governance ............................................................19
Learning and Development .......................................................9
Audit Committee .................................................................19
Global Mentoring Program ........................................................9
Compensation and Management Development Committee .19
Virtual Work Support ................................................................9
Corporate Governance Committee ......................................20
Team Member Recognition ........................................................9
Quality, Regulatory and Technology Committee ..................20
Talent Acquisition ......................................................................9
Executive Compensation .........................................................20
Early Career / Development Rotational Programs......................9
Ethical Business Conduct .........................................................20
Global Mentoring Program ........................................................9
Countering Corruption ............................................................21
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion ....................................................10
Whistleblower Program ...........................................................22
Health, Safety & Wellness ........................................................10
Ethical Marketing ....................................................................23
Pay Equity ................................................................................10
Zimmer Biomet’s Statement of Engagement
Collective Bargaining ...............................................................11
on Public Policy Issues ............................................................23
Discrimination Policy ................................................................11
How Zimmer Biomet Engages ..................................................24
Product Quality ........................................................................11
Industry Groups and Trade Associations ..................................25
Supplier Code of Conduct ........................................................12
Political Contributions .............................................................25
Supplier Social Responsibility Audits .......................................12
2020 Sustainability Accounting Standards
Supplier Diligence ...................................................................12 Board Index .............................................................................26
Supplier Quality Audits ............................................................12
*The disclosures in this report are for WholeCo Zimmer Biomet including Dental & Spine segment
CEO INTRODUCTION
Every day, the Zimmer Biomet team works towards our mission
of alleviating pain and improving quality of life
for people around the world.
We also work toward being a responsible corporate citizen.
This Sustainability Report describes our annual accomplishments in
developing a more sustainable business, reducing waste and use of
natural resources, and improving the environmental performance of our
operations. It also describes our commitment to the highest standards of
patient safety and quality in our products and services and to world-class
integrity and ethical business practices.
In 2021, we continued to make strong progress against
our sustainability commitments. As a company,
we are increasingly focused on advancing these initiatives
and even more ambitious about what we can achieve, together.
On behalf of all of us at Zimmer Biomet, I thank you
for your support. I look forward to continuing to share
our progress with you as we move ahead.
Bryan Hanson
Chairman, President and CEO, Zimmer Biomet
3
COMPANY PROFILE
Corporate Overview Our Mission
Alleviate pain and improve the quality of life
Zimmer Biomet is a global medical technology leader with
for people around the world.
a comprehensive portfolio designed to maximize mobility
and improve health. We seamlessly transform the patient
Guiding Principles
experience through our innovative products and suite of
• Respect the contributions and perspectives
integrated digital and robotic technologies that leverage
of all team members.
data, analytics and artificial intelligence.
• Commit to the highest standards of patient safety,
quality and integrity.
With more than 90 years of trusted leadership and
• Focus our resources in areas where we will
proven expertise, Zimmer Biomet is positioned to deliver
make a difference.
the highest quality solutions to patients and providers.
• Ensure our return is equivalent to the value
Our legacy continues to come to life today through our
we provide our customers and patients.
progressive culture of evolution and innovation.
• Give back to our communities and people in need.
For more information about our product portfolio, our
Our Sustainability Commitment
operations in more than 25 countries and sales in more
Zimmer Biomet is committed to being a good corporate
than 100 countries, or about joining our team, visit
citizen. Our global team is dedicated to sustainable
www.zimmerbiomet.com or follow Zimmer Biomet
practices across the entire spectrum of the environmental,
on Twitter at www.twitter.com/zimmerbiomet.
social and governance platform.
2
OUR APPROACH TO ESG
We take a comprehensive and proactive approach to ESG. The ESG Working Group meets monthly to discuss Zimmer
Our Board’s Corporate Governance Committee oversees Biomet’s ESG initiatives and identifies ways we can enhance
current and emerging political, social, environmental, our ESG disclosures. Our CEO and CFO receive monthly
corporate citizenship and public policy issues for the updates on our ESG progress, while at the Board level,
Company. At the team member level, we have established a the Corporate Governance Committee receives quarterly
functional ESG Working Group, comprised of team members reports.
spanning multiple divisions of the organization, including
Human Resources, Operations, Environmental, Health, We proactively engage with ratings agencies and investors
Safety and Sustainability, Quality, Finance, Accounting, to inform our ESG processes and provide the appropriate
Investor Relations, Communications, Government Affairs, level of transparency while using third party auditing
Legal and Compliance. and benchmarking to pinpoint areas for continuous
improvement.
3
COMPANY AWARDS
4
COVID-19
The COVID-19 pandemic has significantly affected Zimmer All of our manufacturing sites and distribution centers
Biomet’s financial results, but has not impacted the quality, continued to operate throughout 2021 with enhanced
safety and efficacy of our products. safety protocols. Our vigilance and commitment to health
and safety ensured our team members in each region had
Prior to COVID-19, Zimmer Biomet developed what they needed to operate in a safe environment and
comprehensive crisis response plans and initiated meet our operational commitments. Our enhanced safety
contingency drills – including for pandemic events – across protocols were openly shared with suppliers to further
our operations. This exercise helped prepare our business secure our supply chain. Most Zimmer Biomet team
and create enhanced disaster recovery plans that have been members who were not directly responsible for or involved
a significant benefit throughout our response to COVID-19. in manufacturing operations and the supply chain worked
from home as an added safety measure to reduce risk of
Throughout 2021, we continued to aggressively secure our infection and secure the supply chain.
global supply chain and manage the unique challenges
presented by each new COVID-19 wave. Due to these
efforts, we continued to serve our customers without
compromising product quality and safety.
5
ENVIRONMENTAL
Environmental Risk Management Policy
Business Integration
Consistent with Zimmer Biomet’s Mission, Code of Business We integrate EHSS principles into business decisions to
Conduct and Ethics (https://www.zimmerbiomet.com/ proactively ensure the health and safety of our employees
en/about-us/our-impact.html), and the Environmental, and communities, while also promoting environmentally
Health, Safety, and Sustainability (EHSS) vision, we are sustainable practices. Specifically, we require that an
committed to our policy of conducting business in a safe EHSS evaluation be integrated into product design,
and environmentally sustainable manner that promotes the manufacturing and distribution business processes and
health of our employees, customers, community and the services that will reduce EHSS risks, improve performance
environment, specifically fighting climate change. throughout our operations, products and packaging across
their lifecycle, and promote pollution prevention.
The purpose of our Environmental Risk Management
Policy is to implement the principles of the EHSS programs Environment & Climate Change
while implementing and sustaining global best practices. To minimize our impact on the environment and address
Corporate and regional standards exist to support these climate change, we minimize waste and emissions, reuse
principles. and recycle materials, promote renewable energy use,
reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and conserve energy
This policy applies to all locations worldwide and provides and water wherever feasible.
uniform guidance for Zimmer Biomet EHSS teams to
manage and monitor risk within our global manufacturing Health & Safety
and distribution processes. The EHSS Management System Zimmer Biomet EHSS establishes health and safety
delivers six main outcomes, as follows: standards that promote a safe and healthy workplace by
striving continuously to reduce hazards and risks to prevent
Compliance workplace injuries and illnesses.
We comply with, and often exceed the requirements of,
all applicable EHSS laws, regulations, Company EHSS Communication & Education
standards and other requirements to which we subscribe Zimmer Biomet EHSS communicates our Environmental
related to all EHSS subject matter and risks. We conduct Health and Safety Policy to employees, customers,
frequent audits and implement best practices to maintain shareholders, suppliers, community and other
compliance with these requirements. stakeholders. Zimmer Biomet EHSS standards, procedures
and other resources enable employees to implement this
Continuous Improvement policy and share best practices to promote continuous
Zimmer Biomet establishes EHSS goals, objectives improvement and enhance environmental, health and
and targets across our global business and strives to safety performance.
continually improve our performance and publicly report
on our progress. Our EHSS standards establish controls and
promote a positive EHSS culture.
6
Environmental Targets
The environmental issues facing the world and the threat of The following chart shows our scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions.
climate change warrant an urgent and immediate response.
In 2020, Zimmer Biomet publicly committed to setting
science-based targets, which in 2021 were approved
through the Science Based Target Initiative.
https://sciencebasedtargets.org/companies-taking-
action#table
We are committed to reducing absolute scope 1 and 2
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 55% by 2030 from a 2017
base year. We have also committed to reduce absolute
scope 3 GHG emissions from purchased goods and
services to 15% by 2030 from a 2019 base year. More than Source: Zimmer Biomet internal invoice data and third party sources.
40% of our supply chain responded to our request for GHG
emission disclosures in 2021, our first year of focus on scope Additionally, we are proud that 10 of our major manufacturing
3, furthering our efforts to reduce our carbon footprint. and distribution sites are now zero waste to landfill, and we
continue to look for ways to increase recycling as we reduce
Furthermore, in July 2021, a large-scale solar farm, our landfill waste. The following chart details our waste
Prospero II, for which Zimmer Biomet negotiated a Virtual streams for our global operations.
Power Purchase Agreement (VPPA), went into commercial
operation. The renewable energy generated from the solar
farm will offset 100% of our North American electrical load.
In the second half of 2021, the renewable energy generated
for Zimmer Biomet was more than 5,474MWh, which
equates to nearly 39,000 Metric Tons of CO2 emissions
reduction, or 28% reduction of Zimmer Biomet’s scope 1
and 2 GHG emissions. This amount of emissions reduction
is equivalent to nearly 19,500 metric tons of coal burned.
We continue to pursue renewable energies in other regions
throughout the world to advance our commitment to
becoming a recognized leader within the environmental
space.
Since 2011, Zimmer Biomet has been a corporate sponsor of
ACRES Land Trust, Indiana’s oldest and largest membership-
We have also outfitted all major manufacturing and
based nonprofit land conservation organization. ACRES
distribution sites globally with LED lighting, which is more
protects more than 7,200 acres of forests, wetlands,
energy efficient than conventional bulbs.
grasslands and unique geological features in more than 115
nature preserves, many of which are open to the public.
In addition, we actively participate in the Carbon Disclosure
Project (CDP), with a Climate Change 2021 ranking of B,
and a 2021 Supplier Engagement Rating of A-; you can see
our grades here. The Supplier Engagement Rating assesses
performance on governance, targets, scope 3 emissions,
and value chain engagement in the CDP Climate change
questionnaire. Zimmer Biomet considers engagement of
our supply chain a key part of our environmental leadership
strategy.
7
SOCIAL
Talent on key milestones. Managers are also encouraged to
provide coaching and feedback during these valuable
One of Zimmer Biomet’s core strategic pillars is our
conversations. As a result, team members reported
commitment to being a “Best and Preferred Place
significant improvement in engagement with their
to Work” and we advance that priority through a
managers. In response to our company-wide 2020
comprehensive and integrated approach. Below are
engagement survey results, we implemented a
highlights of our 2021 achievements in this area.
global, social recognition platform. As a result, team
members also reported improved satisfaction with the
Culture Promises
recognition they receive for their work.
Our Culture Promises describe a shared commitment
to deliver on our mission and build a stronger Zimmer As the COVID-19 pandemic continues, team members
Biomet. Shape Tomorrow is our promise to keep our reported the need to do even more to nurture well-
eyes on the future and create opportunities to move being and deliver transparent communication, both of
the business forward. Ignite Collaboration reminds us which have been prioritized by our leadership team and
that we are coming together as one Zimmer Biomet included in our 2022 action plans.
to collaborate and create winning outcomes. Focus to
Win is a promise that we will maximize our impact for We believe it is critically important to keep our team
patients and colleagues by working with clarity and members engaged through frequent and transparent
focus. These promises help us to work together to make communication. This is accomplished through town
Zimmer Biomet a Best and Preferred Place to Work. hall meetings, video and written messages and various
other channels. To stay connected throughout the
Team Member Engagement COVID-19 pandemic, our Chief Executive Officer kept
team members informed of our priorities, financial
Through the implementation of a comprehensive results, management response and team member
engagement strategy, we are engaging team members health and safety through frequent video messages
frequently for a more holistic view of the team member and written communications.
experience as we strive to be a Best and Preferred Place
to Work. Performance Management
We use the valuable insights gained through our annual In 2021, we worked to further embed our new framework
team member engagement survey, frequent “pulse and approach to performance management, which is
checks”, and onboarding and exit surveys to inform our branded internally as “Performance Connections”. In
priorities and improve our team members’ experience. addition to the quarterly check-ins mentioned above,
Our surveys assess five key drivers of engagement, we formalized the mid-year Career Check-In through
including purpose, culture, leadership, personal growth which team members align opportunities to learn,
and belonging. develop, and grow with their ambitions for the next
step(s) in their career. As part of this, team members
In 2021, we implemented quarterly performance check- create a talent profile that captures details of their
ins between managers and team members, creating professional resume and document a career plan
opportunities to align on priorities and report progress that outlines next steps as a focal discussion point in
ongoing check-ins with their manager.
8
Learning and Development In 2021, Zimmer Biomet invested in our ERGs and diversity
recruitment programs with newly formed partnerships
We support the learning and development needs of the
with the following: Howard University, National Society of
organization through a number of instructor/virtual training
Black Engineers, National Association of Asian American
courses. These include desktop application training (e.g.,
Professionals, myGworks, FairyGodBoss, Hire Our Heroes,
Excel, Word, PowerPoint), Coaching in the Moment, and
National Sales Network, Girls Who Code, National Football
Insights Discovery. We continue to maintain, and take
League, and Hispanic Alliance for Career Enhancement.
on opportunities to improve, our Learning Management
System (LMS), branded internally as “iLearn”, which is the
Additionally, INROADS and Howard University were named
primary delivery mechanism for Quality, Compliance, and
Zimmer Biomet’s campus and national partners for early
product-focused training that services 26,600 employees
career diverse talent in 2021 in the United States.
and contractors, and houses over 34,000 courses globally.
Early Career / Development Rotational
Global Mentoring Program
Programs
We launched a pilot global mentoring program, Mentoring
In 2021, Zimmer Biomet sustained and enhanced our early
Connections, to connect experienced Zimmer Biomet
career talent programming in locations across the U.S.,
professionals with team members who are eager to learn from
including full-time rotational development programs in
their experience. We matched and trained mentor/mentee
Finance and Quality. Enhancements include partnering
pairs to embark on a six-month formal mentoring relationship.
our early career hires with mentors from our global ERGs,
We will evaluate the experience and impact of the program for
hosting professional development and socialization events.
pilot participants and plan to expand the program in 2022.
Virtual Work Support In the United States, Zimmer Biomet’s robust finance
summer intern program is a direct pipeline for our full-time
We launched virtual work global programming support Finance Development Program (FDP.) Approximately 60%
intended to help team members achieve success through of our finance summer interns leave their internship with a
sustained remote work in response to the pandemic. full-time job offer, which includes a competitive salary, sign-
This includes the creation of job aids and resources that on bonus, and full benefits.
help team members and managers focus on building and
sustaining connections in the absence of regular, in-person Our full-time rotational development programs are a
contact. We also produced and shared four “fireside chats” launch pad for college graduates. Participants rotate
featuring our leadership team members sharing their across 3-4 areas of the global business for a diverse view
experiences and actionable tips of leading and working of their function and its processes, and at the conclusion
virtually. Chat topics focused on well-being, recognition, of their two-year program, participants “graduate” and are
mentoring, and accountability and engagement. promoted to next-level roles, which is on an accelerated
time schedule in comparison to peers with the same years
Team Member Recognition of experience.
In 2021 we launched a new global, social recognition
Global Benefits
platform, IGNITE, to recognize team members for the
remarkable work they do every day. With a mobile app, team Zimmer Biomet reviews our benefits each plan year,
members can give recognition to others from anywhere, at considering both our team member population as well
any time. as market benefit practices so we are competitive in our
offerings.
Talent Acquisition
We understand how critical well-being is for our team
As part of our commitment to diversity, the Talent
members and their families. Globally, initiatives are in
Acquisition team partnered with our Employee Resource
place or being implemented to provide health-promoting
Groups (ERGs), hiring managers and executive sponsors
activities that support sustainable behaviors among team
to enhance our talent pools by engaging with new national
members, reducing physical and mental health risks,
and campus partnerships.
improving the quality of life, and enhancing personal
effectiveness at work. Also, in recent years, we have focused
on key areas for women, family and individual health.
9
Below are key areas in the U.S. where we continue to assess • Match, through the Zimmer Biomet Foundation,
and adjust as needed to support our team members. employee financial contributions to nonprofit
• We continue to offer key preventative services and for organizations, including those dedicated to combating
mothers, we provide opportunities to help support and racism and supporting diversity, equality and justice.
transition back to the workforce. • Expand our student and early career internship
• We increased Infertility benefits and the number of programs to attract and develop more Black leaders.
Parental Leave days while continuing to provide child • Continue our financial support of Movement is Life, a
care discounts at multiple day care facilities. multidisciplinary coalition seeking to eliminate racial,
• We understand our team members have individualized ethnic and gender disparities in muscle and joint
needs and we offer programs to support them, such as health.
global employee assistance programs (EAP) counseling
and also benefits such as transgender surgery/medical Health, Safety & Wellness
benefits.
The physical and mental health, financial well-being
and work/life balance of our team members are vital to
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
accomplishing our Mission and achieving our goals. We
Zimmer Biomet remains committed to creating, supporting sponsor wellness programs designed to enhance physical,
and celebrating diverse and equal workplaces and financial and mental well-being, and encourage participation
communities. We continue to foster and embrace diversity in these programs through regular communications,
and inclusion within our team and our communities, and educational sessions and other incentives.
commit our voices and our resources to community groups,
business platforms and other organizations united to We are also intensely focused on the health and safety of
driving meaningful change and sustained improvement. our team members in the workplace. Our environmental,
We believe that representation matters. As of December health and safety team constantly monitors various metrics
31, 2021, women made up 35.1% of our total employee to ensure we are providing the safest environment in which
population, and 25.1% of positions at Director level and to work. In 2021, our Total Recordable Incident Rate, which
above. People of Color (POC) made up 22.1% of our total is defined as recordable incidents multiplied by 200,000
employee population in the U.S., and comprised 15.2% of hours worked divided by total hours worked, was 0.29 and
positions at Director level and above. We have established our Lost Time Incident Rate, which is defined as lost time
2026 representation goals for women and POC in the incidents multiplied by 200,000 hours worked divided by
organization, guided by internal and external benchmarks. total hours worked, was 0.14.
Core to Zimmer Biomet’s values is our commitment to
stand together against hatred, discrimination and injustice, Pay Equity
and we advance these values through our actions and
We are committed to our pay equity process and we conduct
investments. With this in mind, we have committed to the
annual pay equity reviews. Our comprehensive pay equity
following initiatives to drive and accelerate change within
review covers pay, promotions and new hire practices. This
our own organization and around the globe. We have
includes various types of pay, such as base salary, bonus,
shared these commitments publicly and are tracking our
long-term incentives and new hire sign-on awards (cash or
progress against them:
equity).
• Engage our more than 20,000 global team members in
cultural awareness and inclusion programming.
Prior to 2019, the pay equity review was focused on gender
• Invest $1 million and provide executive sponsorship to
differences, with any identified pay issue also being
support ongoing programs and elevate the impact of
reviewed for ethnicity against similarly situated positions.
our ERGs.
Starting in 2019, we further enhanced our analysis to review
• Commit at least $5 million over five years through the
pay differences by gender, age, ethnicity and location, and
Zimmer Biomet Foundation to nonprofit organizations
in 2020 engaged a new external partner with increased
globally dedicated to combating racism and supporting
analytical capabilities. Each year we assess our analysis
diversity, equality and justice. The Zimmer Biomet
capabilities to identify areas of opportunity.
Foundation is an independent, nonprofit organization
established in 2018 to address the needs of our global
community. You can read more about the Zimmer
Biomet Foundation below.
10
quality audit program and are audited periodically by
external regulatory bodies such as the U.S. Food and
Drug Administration (FDA) and other regulatory and
nongovernmental competent authorities around the world.
Our internal corporate audit and external audit results are
closely monitored and reported at regular management
review meetings, and we maintain a detailed set of key
performance indicators in the quality area. In addition,
the Quality, Regulatory and Technology Committee of
the Board of Directors receives a comprehensive quality
presentation at each quarterly meeting.
Human Resources coordinates Zimmer Biomet’s process to
We have multiple manufacturing sites proactively
address any issues identified from the pay equity analysis.
participating in the Medical Device Innovation Consortium
Individuals identified in the annual pay equity review
(MDIC) and the FDA Case for Quality Voluntary Improvement
continue to have their annual progress monitored in order
program. For more information on this program, visit
to ensure that any pay issues are resolved.
www.fda.gov/medical-devices/quality-and-compliance-
Collective Bargaining medical-devices/case-quality
Furthermore, we have a stringent supply chain monitoring
Zimmer Biomet has more than 20,000 active team members program inclusive of quality, delivery and cost measures.
globally, approximately 200 of whom are affiliated with a In recent years, Zimmer Biomet has made substantial
U.S. collective bargaining agreement. progress on quality system enhancements and remediation
across our network. As of December 2021, we had one
Discrimination Policy pending FDA Warning Letter, which pertains to our Warsaw,
Indiana North Campus facility. While the Warning Letter
Zimmer Biomet is an equal opportunity employer and is fully
at the Warsaw North facility remains active, following an
committed to a policy of treating all of our team members
FDA re-inspection in 2020, the FDA classified the site as
and job applicants equally.
Voluntary Action Indicated, or VAI. Zimmer Biomet (Warsaw
North Campus facility) is partnering with FDA and MDIC
We take all reasonable steps to employ, train and promote
as part of an industry pilot study (Accelerate Sustainable
team members on the basis of their experience, abilities and
Capability) to help improve product quality and safety,
qualifications without regard to race, color, ethnic origin,
enable compliance actions to be closed faster, and structure
nationality, national origin, religion or belief, sex, sexual
systems for sustainable continuous improvement. The pilot
orientation, gender reassignment, age, marital or civil
program leverages a maturity assessment program that
partnership status or disability.
includes action plans with FDA reviews.
We have made significant investments in Quality
We also take all reasonable steps to provide a work
Management System remediation and upgrades over the
environment in which all team members are treated with
past four years. While these enhancements continue, we are
respect and dignity and that is free of harassment based
very encouraged that these efforts have already resulted in
upon an employee’s race, color, ethnic origin, nationality,
a significant reduction in FDA product recalls during that
national origin, religion or belief, sex, sexual orientation,
time. In 2021, the FDA reportable recall total was 5, which
gender reassignment, age, marital or civil partnership
was a 75% improvement compared to 2020.
status or disability.
Forms Warning
Zimmer Biomet does not condone any form of harassment,
Class 1 Class 2 Class 3 483 Letters
whether engaged in by team members or by outside third
Year Recalls Recalls Recalls Received Received
parties who do business with us.
2016 1 40 1 3 1
Product Quality 2017 1 62 0 7 0
2018 1 48 0 3 1
Zimmer Biomet is committed to best-in-class product
2019 1 24 0 3 0
quality and the robustness of our Quality Management
System. Every site has a stringent internal quality audit 2020 0 21 0 1 0
program. In addition, we have an independent corporate 2021 1 4 0 0 0
11
We are advancing automation in manufacturing, quality We have also taken steps to ensure that slavery and human
systems and inspection and measurement methods such as trafficking is not taking place in our supply chains or any
Manufacturing Execution System (MES), Design Controls parts of our business operations through the UK Modern
and Risk Management Software (The Vault), and InfinityQS. Slavery Act of 2015 and the California Transparency in
A Product Lifecycle Management tool, Windchill, is in the Supply Chains Act of 2010.
midst of a global implementation to simplify regulatory www.zimmerbiomet.com/content/dam/zb-corporate/en/
compliance while simultaneously increasing new product suppliers/global-and-nam/uk-modern-slavery-act-and-
speed to market. The global use of this tool will create an california-transparency-in-supply-chain-act-statement.pdf
ability for resources to work across the network seamlessly
and formulate a single approach to deliverable completion. Supplier Social Responsibility Audits
Zimmer Biomet conducts Social Responsibility audits
In addition to the Quality Begins With Me program launched
with all new suppliers in high risk regions and on existing
in 2020, an upgraded compliance hotline process was
suppliers every three years. The audit investigates child
launched across Zimmer Biomet in 2021 with a campaign
labor; forced labor and human trafficking; disciplinary
called “If You See Something, Say Something”. Both the
practices; working hours and compensation; environmental
program and the hotline help us continue to promote a
protection; health and safety; and management practices.
“blame free” culture where we drive appropriate behaviors,
Forty-seven suppliers were audited in 2019 with no major
empower team members to promote operational
findings. The next round of Social Responsibility audits will
excellence, and maintain focus on quality and compliance.
occur in 2022 and focus on high-risk suppliers.
We have continued with Green Belt and Black Belt
Supplier Diligence
certification programs so team members learn and apply
LEAN tools to reduce waste, drive out variation (by applying For all new proposed international suppliers, due diligence
Define, Measure, Analyze, Improve and Control problem- investigations are conducted by the Zimmer Biomet
solving), and make data-driven decisions through proven Compliance team to make sure the third party is not on
quality tools and statistical methods. a blocked person list, a specially designated national
watchlist or otherwise a prohibited party. This global due
We are also working toward compliance and certification diligence review starts at the front end of the request
with the European Union Medical Device Regulation process. Ongoing due diligence is conducted periodically
standards by 2024. for existing suppliers.
Supplier Code of Conduct Supplier Quality Audits
We are committed to achieving and maintaining the highest New and existing supplier audit plans are established based
standards of corporate integrity and ethical behavior, and on the applicable Quality Management System (QMS)
we expect our suppliers to conduct business with the same requirement for the product/service the supplier provides.
high standards. To establish guidelines for such standards, The applicable QMS requirements are focused on FDA
Zimmer Biomet has instituted a Code of Supplier Conduct, and International Organization for Standardization (ISO)
available at standards. These standards include FDA 21 CFR 820 and
www.zimmerbiomet.com/content/dam/zimmer-biomet/ ISO 13485.
sourcing/Zimmer-Biomet-Supplier-Code-of-Conduct.pdf
Zimmer Biomet has three global documents detailing the
At a minimum, suppliers must conduct business in process: (i) the Supplier Questionnaire is used to collect
accordance with all applicable country, state, and local a variety of information on the supplier, including an
laws and regulations covering the jurisdictions in which overview of the supplier’s quality system; (ii) the Supplier
they operate, including, without limitation, laws relating Qualification Report determines which audit plan will be
to employment, human rights, the environment, health followed and the supplier’s risk classification; and (iii) the
and safety and trade. Each supplier is to comply with Supplier Audit Report details the information found during
the commercial best practices of the supplier’s industry. the audit and the attendees.
Zimmer Biomet reserves the right to decline to deal with
suppliers who do not comply with the law or our standards.
12
All information gathered from the auditing process is stored A key component in risk monitoring is the financial impacts
in a global system and accessible to all Zimmer Biomet that might occur in raw material scarcity and/or physical
businesses. disruptions of Zimmer Biomet’s own operations or in the
operations of our supply chain. To mitigate these risks,
Supplier Diversity Policy Zimmer Biomet uses a third party to rank our top suppliers
against 73 financial ratios on a scale of 1-100 to understand
We believe that a diverse supply chain strengthens our ability
the overall financial health of these suppliers. It is considered
to carry out our Mission and improve the communities in
to have substantive strategic impact on Zimmer Biomet’s
which we live and work. Zimmer Biomet’s Supplier Diversity
business if suppliers score below a 20 in this rating.
Policy in the United States assists in establishing and
maintaining business relationships with suppliers that are
Through a third-party vendor, we obtain international
either certified in diverse categories by the Small Business
private company financial statements and have a greater
Administration or self-certified where applicable.
than 85% success rate (and above 90% in certain markets)
to measure the core health of a supplier out to 36 months,
We assign a Small Business Liaison Officer (SBLO) as an
and predicting probability of default over 12 to 18 months
administrator for the Supplier Diversity Program. The SBLO
via a quantitative model to generate a rating.
assures that reports documenting procurement levels,
broken down by supplier classification, are prepared as
Animal Testing Policy
requested by government agencies and contract groups.
Annual Summary Subcontract Reports and Year End Zimmer Biomet’s use of animal testing is consistent with
Supplementary Small Disadvantaged Business (SDB)
animal welfare acts around the world. We use animal
Reports are submitted according to the Department of
testing when required to demonstrate biological safety for
Defense.
our products that cannot be demonstrated by laboratory
benchtop tests or when required to demonstrate
Zimmer Biomet’s diversity reporting obligations to the
compliance with medical device regulations.
U.S. Federal Government include spending in the United
States and Puerto Rico in the following six diverse supplier
The laboratories that Zimmer Biomet engages for animal
categories annually:
testing typically have American Association for Accreditation
1. Historically Underutilized Business Zone Small
of Laboratory Animal Care (AAALAC) certification or have
Business (HUBZone)
their own animal research committee (i.e., an independent
2. Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business
review committee) to ensure compliance with national
(SDVOSB)
animal welfare acts. Zimmer Biomet does not perform
3. Small Business (SB)
animal testing directly; the work is contracted to labs.
4. Small Disadvantaged Business (SDB)
5. Veteran-Owned Small Business (VOSB)
Clinical Trial Program
6. Women-Owned Small Business (WOSB)
We operate a robust global clinical research program that
Management of Risks Associated strives to collect meaningful clinical evidence to support our
vast portfolio of products that ultimately help alleviate pain
with Use of Critical Materials
and improve the quality of life for people around the world.
Zimmer Biomet has a Global Supply Risk Management Our clinical research programs support the safety and
process. We have established a systematic approach to: effectiveness of our products, services and technologies
• Ensure continuity of supply for goods and services in a compliant and transparent manner. Zimmer Biomet-
• Proactively manage (identify, assess, mitigate and supported clinical trials are conducted across many
monitor) potential supply risks which may result in different programs, including sponsored multi-center
product delays and/or revenue impact to the business global clinical trials, as well as Company supported smaller
• Ensure that a global process is being utilized across the investigator initiated clinical trials.
Zimmer Biomet Global Sourcing Organization
13
Zimmer Biomet conducts studies all over the world that are initiative and Food and Drug Administration Amendments
managed by our global Clinical Affairs teams. These teams Act (FDAAA) requirements by utilizing ClinicalTrials.gov to
manage our regulated and post-market studies and are register our active clinical studies and study results once
located in key locations across the globe. In all instances, they are available. All study results are posted, regardless
these programs and teams adhere to Zimmer Biomet of whether the trial is deemed successful or failed to meet
policies and procedures that incorporate the standards set the primary end point. A sample listing of Zimmer Biomet
forth in the International Conference on Harmonization, the clinical trials can be found at ClinicalTrials.gov.
Declaration of Helsinki, Good Clinical Practice guidelines
and the AdvaMed Code of Ethics. Grants, Donations and Funding
Zimmer Biomet Foundation
To protect the rights, privacy, safety and well-being of
Zimmer Biomet is committed to our guiding principle of
clinical trial participants, Zimmer Biomet has an overarching
giving back to our communities and people in need.
global procedure for Conducting Clinical Research
Involving Human Subjects. This procedure also ensures
that the clinical research from our clinical trials is qualified
and reliable and can be used by worldwide regulatory
authorities. As part of our procedures, clinical trials are
reviewed and approved by several cross-functional internal The Zimmer Biomet Foundation is an independent,
committees, including a Clinical Investigation Review philanthropic, nonprofit organization established in 2018
Committee and a Clinical Research Review Committee. to address the needs of our global community. The mission
of the Zimmer Biomet Foundation is to improve the quality
Clinical trials are only approved if they are scientifically of life for our communities by providing resources to help:
sound, meet a well-defined business need and are within fair build healthy communities, advance Science, Technology,
market value calculations. Clinical trial support can range Engineering and Math (STEM) education, provide disaster
from monetary funding, providing in-kind product, or even relief and address healthcare disparities while advancing
the loaning of specialized instrumentation and equipment. diversity, equity and inclusion. Zimmer Biomet continued
In addition to the internal Zimmer Biomet review and to fund the Zimmer Biomet Foundation with a large
approval processes, all clinical studies are required to be contribution in 2021, allowing for continued charitable work
reviewed and approved by an Institutional Review Board globally.
or Ethics Committee that is independent of both Zimmer
Biomet and the participating investigational centers. From supporting Zimmer Biomet team members’ charitable
programs, to funding community efforts in line with its
Clinical Trial Transparency pillars, the Zimmer Biomet Foundation donated nearly $2.7
million in charitable grants in 2021.
Zimmer Biomet supports clinical research to foster
advances in clinical knowledge and furthering medical
The Zimmer Biomet Foundation continued the Team
device development related to our products and
Member Relief Fund to support team members facing
programs. As such, clinical trial transparency is required
financial hardship due to personal or catastrophic reasons,
to appropriately contribute to and comply with the
including COVID-19. Since its inception, the Fund has
International Committee of Medical Journal Editors (ICMJE)
provided more than $1 million in relief grants to team
members.
14
and the United Way. In addition, team members organized
Zimmer Biomet Medical Missions
several collection drives to provide needed items for back-
to-school efforts and help during the holidays.
Zimmer Biomet donated orthopedic products to
support more than 15 philanthropic medical mission
The Zimmer Biomet Foundation created the Zimmer Biomet
trips in 2021 to help patients in need around the globe. Scholarship Fund for dependents of team members in the
Due to the ongoing pandemic, several planned medical U.S. For the inaugural year, 10 recipients were selected
mission trips were postponed and rescheduled for to receive $2,500 for educational costs toward college
future dates. expenses.
Zimmer Biomet continued our unique partnership The Foundation continued to contribute to COVID relief
with Faith in Practice by donating a replenishment of efforts through Americares, as well as match team member
implant inventory necessary to continually perform donations. Funding was provided to the Red Cross to
charitable surgeries in Guatemala. Faith in Practice assist with efforts following the flooding in Europe. With
the earthquake disaster in Haiti in 2021, Zimmer Biomet
(www.faithinpractice.org) is committed to serving
donated external fixation devices to nonprofit organizations
the poor of Guatemala through short-term medical
to help patients in need. Additionally, in late December
mission trips that take an integrated approach to care
2021, we donated burn care equipment to assist with the
that strives to reach those in the greatest need.
aftermath of the Haiti fuel truck explosion.
Zimmer Biomet supported many other organizations-
The Zimmer Biomet Foundation also supported the
-including One World Surgery, Bayside Medical
Indiana Chamber Foundation’s Accelerating Indiana
Missions, Operation Walk, and more--to care for Vision 2025 program. The initiative has a number of
underprivileged patients in need in Dominican important dimensions, including broadband access, urban
Republic, Honduras, Ecuador, Kenya and more. development, K-12 STEM curricula and advancing Diversity,
Equity and Inclusion. The ZBF continued support of STEM-
Additionally, we continue to support charitable related activities through the local school system in Warsaw,
surgeries in the U.S. by donating implants through Indiana, home of Zimmer Biomet’s global headquarters.
Americares. In 2021, Americares was able to
support approximately 40 charitable surgeries in
Zimmer Biomet Corporate Grants
the U.S. with Zimmer Biomet implants. Americares
In 2021, Zimmer Biomet provided grants, donations and
(www.americares.org) saves lives and improves health
funding for numerous educational and philanthropic
for people affected by poverty or disaster so they can
projects. These included grants to support orthopedic
reach their full potential.
post-graduate medical education, including funding
to OMeGA Medical Grants Association. OMeGA
In addition, the Zimmer Biomet Foundation matched team
(www.omegamedicalgrants.org) is an independent
member donations to over 500 nonprofit organizations with
legal entity with a singular mission: to award and
a dollar-for-dollar match. Nearly $400,000 combined from
administer grants for graduate orthopedic medical
team member contributions and the Foundation match was
education through an open, accessible process
contributed to charities in 2021.
designed to safeguard against potential conflicts of
interest and to ensure transparency in the allocation of
We proudly support team members volunteering in their
resources.
communities and abroad by offering resources to match
team members with volunteer opportunities and work
policies that allow them to take the time to support their Zimmer Biomet also provided educational grants to
community. support independent medical education conferences
that promote scientific knowledge, medical
For the first year collectively capturing data on the advancement and the delivery of effective healthcare.
volunteer program, team members logged close to 3,000 In addition, Zimmer Biomet provided grants to third-
hours of giving back to their community. Some of those
party organizations for independent research to
organizations include Feed My Starving Children, Prospect
advance patient treatment designed for improved
Hospice Limited, Bumbleance Ireland (Saoirse Foundation)
outcomes.
15
Advancing Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Access to Healthcare
The Zimmer Biomet Foundation has partnered with many
Movement is Life
nonprofit organizations to advance diversity, equity and
Since 2004, Zimmer Biomet has funded initiatives that
inclusion, particularly related to disparities and career
focus on defining and reducing musculoskeletal disparities.
development in healthcare.
Movement is Life, a multi-disciplinary coalition, partners
with thought leaders and national member organizations
As part of the large-scale partnership with the National
aligned to create sustainable change in marginalized
Association for the Advancement of Colored People
populations. The coalition is dedicated to the elimination of
(NAACP) to focus on expanding medical access for people
racial, ethnic, geographic and gender disparities in muscle
of color, our funding has supported the creation of the
and joint health by promoting physical mobility to improve
organization’s Learning and Impact Team and seed funding
quality of life among African American, Hispanic and rural
to support a partnership with Brookings Institute to develop
women.
the Black Asset Index.
Movement is Life programs include:
Funding was also provided to support programs that
• Operation Change, a community-based public health
promote diversity and multiculturalism in medical schools
intervention focused on positive behavior modification
and in surgeon professional development, as well as
in individuals who suffer from joint pain and chronic
industry minority initiatives to raise orthopedic treatment
comorbid conditions such as diabetes and obesity. Due
awareness and support higher education. One example
to limitations related to COVID-19, in 2021 Movement
of diversity-related funding is the support we provide to
is Life created a monthly, virtual Operation Change
The Perry Initiative, which is committed to inspiring young
series focused on educational topics and movement.
women to be leaders in the fields of orthopedic surgery and
• The “Start Moving Start Living” website that serves
engineering.
as a repository for culturally competent patient
communication tools to raise awareness about the
Zimmer Biomet is the Founding Sponsor of Nth
health risks associated with immobility in the United
Dimensions, an educational nonprofit organization created
States.
to help increase diversity of women and underrepresented
• A “Health Disparities” podcast focused on critical
minorities in the field of orthopedics, including pre-
issues including social determinants of health,
medical students, medical students and residents. We are
environmental impact on marginalized communities
a corporate partner of the J. Robert Gladden Orthopedic
and structural barriers to equitable healthcare. More
Society, a multi-cultural organization with a mission to
than 110 podcasts have been recorded. The podcasts
increase diversity within the orthopedic profession. We
can be found on the Movement is Life Caucus website.
also provide support to the Ruth Jackson Orthopedic
• A monthly virtual speaker forum to include nationally
Society, which is dedicated to advancing the science and
recognized experts on topics such as political
practice of orthopedic surgery among women, as well as
determinants of health, structural bias and safety net
the American Association of Latino Orthopedic Surgeons,
hospitals.
which represents not only members of Latino descent,
• In 2021, Movement is Life hosted its 11th Caucus,
but all orthopedists who treat members of the Latino and
attracting more than 200 participants including
Hispanic communities.
policy makers, community advocates, academicians,
providers, healthcare professionals and patients
The Zimmer Biomet Foundation also collaborated with
with the goal of educating and elevating critical
Zimmer Biomet’s global Employee Resource Groups to
messaging regarding the impact of the coronavirus
support nonprofit organizations that align with the focus of
on marginalized communities. The Caucus featured
each group, and enhance the positive impact we can make
many nationally known and published speakers such
across all areas of inclusion.
as Daniel Dawes, Garth Graham, Wayne Riley and Elvis
Francois to address the impact of structural racism and
NAACP Nth Dimensions
social determinants of health.
https://naacp.org/ www.nthdimensions.org
Perry Initiative
https://perryinitiative.org/
Ruth Jackson Orthopedic Society
http://www.rjos.org/
16
Patient Privacy and Data Security Data Security
Zimmer Biomet implements and verifies stringent
At Zimmer Biomet, the patient is always the patient, and
security requirements to protect data we hold for
never the product. Patient data is used to improve outcomes
patients and customers. These include a broad
and create value for patients and their care teams through
array of controls, including encryption, third-party
our algorithms, systems and products in order to support
penetration testing, malware defenses, access
our commitment to the highest standards of patient safety,
limitations and auditing. We also have our compliance
quality and integrity.
with security requirements arising under the Health
Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA),
Our commitment to protecting patient and customer data is
General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), California
embodied in our four Privacy and Data Security Pillars:
Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA), LGPD (Brazil), China’s
• Privacy. Privacy is a fundamental human right and we
Personal Information Protection Law (PIPL) and other
maintain robust practices to help ensure that that right
key data protection regulations reviewed and verified
is protected. Patients and customers decide what they
by third-party experts. We are transparent regarding
share with us.
our security controls so that customers can understand
• Security. Zimmer Biomet protects the data that
and document the ways in which their information is
patients and customers entrust us with through
protected.
strong safeguards. Among other measures, we apply
encryption in transit and at rest, scheduled annual
Data Usage
security risk assessments and penetration testing by
Zimmer Biomet ensures that information is only
third parties.
collected, used and disclosed for permissible purposes.
• Data usage. We only use customer and patient data
Through our contracts with customers, notice and
to provide the services we have agreed upon, and for
consent forms, and other means, we are transparent
purposes that are compatible with providing those
about the ways we use information to create value for
services.
patients and providers. We have implemented robust
• Ownership. We put patients and customers in control
policies, procedures and trainings designed to ensure
of their data and have established tools and processes
that patients’ and customers’ information is being
that give patients easy options to exercise their rights
handled consistent with those statements.
with respect to their personal data.
Ownership
Privacy
The patient, provider and Zimmer Biomet each have
There have never been more opportunities to use
rights and responsibilities regarding data collected in
information collected in the course of treatment to create
the course of treatment.
innovative solutions to improve patient outcomes. At the
same time, the importance of protecting patient privacy
Zimmer Biomet’s customer engagements, patient
has never been higher.
consents and notices and other privacy and information
Privacy is built into our products and services by design
security practices are designed to ensure that these
and by default. By taking this approach, we accommodate
rights and responsibilities are respected.
privacy in an effective and user-friendly way.
Zimmer Biomet has engaged with OneTrust, the
industry-leading privacy management solution, to
embed privacy in our products and services. Our
mymobility® platform, for example, is supported with
a dedicated portal for individuals to exercise their
privacy rights, with user-friendly features such as
explanatory hovertext, local-language accessibility,
and automated identity verification. We want to make
it as easy as possible for patients to communicate their
privacy preferences.
17
Cybersecurity
all third-party vendor management, governance and
A strong cybersecurity program is essential in today’s data protection programs are aligned to best practices,
business landscape and we have continued to invest in regulations and standards in order to reduce organizational
people, processes and next generation cybersecurity risk.
technology solutions to combat this evolving risk. Cyber We have a dedicated global security operations team that
threats are emerging and evolving daily so we continue to executes the cybersecurity incident response plan and
manage these cyber-risks in alignment with industry best threat management, and conducts regular exercises to
practices and frameworks. assure our preparedness and effectiveness. Our global
Our commitment to cybersecurity includes a programmatic cybersecurity awareness program has increased awareness
approach aiming to protect the confidentiality, integrity of cyber threats for users and we continue to share best
and availability of our systems, data and products. This practices with all our team members.
continuous process ensures that measures are in place to
improve and update our cybersecurity program using key The cybersecurity program is led by Zimmer Biomet’s Chief
methods such as independent assessments, penetration Information Security Officer and the Chief Information
testing, vulnerabilities scanning and maintaining key Officer, and regular progress updates are presented to the
industry certifications. Zimmer Biomet strives to ensure Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.
18
GOVERNANCE
Corporate Governance of the independent Directors held in conjunction with each
regularly scheduled Board meeting, reviews and provides
We are committed to effective corporate governance,
input on meeting agendas for the Board and its committees,
adhering to the highest ethical standards and acting as a
and provides feedback on the flow of information from
responsible member of our communities.
management to the Board. The Lead Independent Director
Our business is managed under the direction of our Board
is also available, as appropriate, for direct communication
of Directors, which has responsibility for establishing broad
with shareholders.
corporate policies and for our overall performance.
Zimmer Biomet has developed risk management processes
As of March 1, 2022, our Board is made up of 10 Directors
designed to promote long-term shareholder value with
who have been nominated based on their skills, experiences,
oversight by the Board of Directors. Sustainability topics
backgrounds and the needs of the Board and our Company.
are incorporated into our risk management processes,
Every Director must stand for election annually. At all
and various executive leadership team members have
times, a majority of the Board of Directors must meet the
responsibility for implementing processes designed to
criteria for independence established by applicable laws
identify, evaluate, mitigate and monitor risks. Reviews
and regulations and the New York Stock Exchange. All of
of key risks occur at regularly scheduled meetings of the
our Directors, except our Chairman, President and Chief
Board of Directors and its committees. The Board executes
Executive Officer, are independent.
its oversight responsibility for risk management directly
and through its committees:
Directors are recruited to strengthen the Board’s diversity
and ensure that the Board reflects and understands the
Audit Committee
diverse perspectives of Zimmer Biomet’s stakeholders
Oversight Areas:
around the globe. Three of our ten Directors (30%) are
• The integrity of our financial statements
women, three (30%) are ethnically diverse, one (10%)
• The performance of our Internal Audit function
identifies as LGBTQ+, and four (40%) were born outside the
• Our compliance with legal and regulatory
United States. Additionally, of our four Board committees,
requirements
one (25%) is chaired by a woman.
• Our Corporate Compliance Program
• Privacy, data security, business continuity and
The Board recognizes the importance of having a
cybersecurity-related risk exposures
strong independent Board leadership structure to
ensure accountability. Accordingly, our Corporate
Compensation and Management
Governance Guidelines provide for the appointment of
Development Committee
a Lead Independent Director when the Chairman is not
Oversight Areas:
independent. The Board believes that a Lead Independent
• The compensation of our senior executives
Director is an integral part of our Board structure and
• Our incentive and equity-based compensation plans
facilitates the effective performance of the Board in its role
and programs
of providing governance and oversight.
• Senior management talent and development plans (in
conjunction with the full Board)
Among other duties and responsibilities, the Lead
• Our policies and strategies relating to human capital
Independent Director convenes and presides at meetings
management (in conjunction with the full Board)
of the independent Directors, including executive sessions
19
Corporate Governance Committee not an increase) to executives’ 2021 bonus payouts by up to
Oversight Areas: 5%. In 2021, across our global network, we received no new
• Our public policy, government relations and advocacy FDA Warning Letters and our average number of Form 483
activities observations per inspection was less than 3.0. As a result,
• Our sustainability activities, including initiatives the global quality bonus modifier had no impact on our
related to the environment and climate change executives’ 2021 bonus payouts.
• Our community relations activities and charitable
contributions, including the underlying philosophy, For more information on our executive compensation
goals and purposes of our contribution activities philosophy and programs, please see our 2022 proxy
• Our initiatives related to promoting access to statement.
healthcare and other social responsibility issues
Ethical Business Conduct
Quality, Regulatory and Technology Committee
We are committed to being a leader in the area of ethics and
Oversight Areas:
compliance. Every day, we strive for the highest standards
• Product quality and safety
of patient safety, quality and integrity in all that we do.
• Risks relating to our compliance with laws and
regulations enforced by the U.S. Food and Drug
Whether working with surgeons, regulators, distributors,
Administration and comparable foreign government
partners or fellow team members, we know that what we do
regulators
to contribute to our mission is as important as how we do it.
• Research, innovation and technology initiatives
Our commitment to doing business with integrity is guided
Executive Compensation
by the comprehensive compliance policies and procedures
Our executives receive fixed compensation (base salary), that help team members and business partners navigate
as well as short-term and long-term performance-based the applicable laws, regulations and industry codes, as well
compensation. Applicable performance metrics and targets as Zimmer Biomet’s own ethical standards. These standards
align executives’ interests with those of Zimmer Biomet are outlined in Zimmer Biomet’s Code of Business Conduct
shareholders and are approved by the Compensation and and Ethics.
Management Development Committee of our Board of
Directors. The Code defines Zimmer Biomet’s approach to delivering
high performance with high integrity, and articulates
We are committed to the highest standards of patient safety the ethical standards by which team members are held
and quality in our products and services and to world-class accountable. It also guides and inspires positive interactions
integrity and ethical business practices. In support of this with customers and with people in the communities in
commitment, and to drive accountability for compliance which we live and work.
with, and sustained improvements in, our global quality
system, the Compensation and Management Development So that every team member understands and is accountable
Committee included a global quality bonus modifier for our Code, and has access to it, it is available online in
component to executives’ annual cash incentive plan in 33 languages. Zimmer Biomet also requires training for
2021. The modifier was designed such that, based on the all newly hired team members within the first 60 days of
achievement of specified global quality metrics related to employment and retrains all team members annually.
our FDA inspection results, it could result in a decrease (but
20
In 2021, 100% of team members put their collective integrity
• ABHI (UK)
into action, successfully completing the Code of Business
• ABIMED Code of Conduct (Brazil)
Conduct & Ethics training in addition to Conflicts of Interest
• ABIMO (Brazil)
and Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption trainings.
• ABRAIDI (Brazil)
• AdvaMed China (China)
In 2021:
• AdvaMed Code of Ethics (United States)
100
% • 100 percent of team
• American Medical Devices and Diagnostics
members successfully
Manufacturers’ Association (Japan)
completed the Code
COMPLETED • AMID (Mexico)
ETHICS TRAINING of Business Conduct
• APOMED (Portugal)
& Ethics training
• ARTED (Turkey)
• Austromed: Verhaltenskodex (Austria)
• beMedTech (Belgium)
Annually, we mark our commitment to the highest levels
• BVMed: Kodex Medizinprodukte (Germany)
of integrity and ethical business practices by hosting
“Compliance Week”. The intent is to maintain and increase • CANIFARMA (Mexico)
awareness about the Compliance program and the • Confindustria dispositivi medici (Italy)
resources available, further strengthening our compliance • CZECHMED (Czech Republic)
culture by engaging team members in activities and • Fenin Code of Ethics (Spain)
communications that promote ethics and integrity.
• IMEDA (CIS)
• Instituto Ética Saúde (Brazil)
In 2021, the format for Zimmer Biomet’s sixth annual
• Korea Medical Devices Industry Association (Korea)
Compliance Week celebration was largely virtual due to the
• Mecomed Code of Ethical Business Practice
COVID-19 pandemic. Team members participated in group
(Middle East)
video watch parties of two thought-provoking and engaging
• Medical Technology Association of India (India)
discussions about the importance of raising concerns and
how that protects Zimmer Biomet, including a review of • Medical Technology Industry Group (Singapore)
real-life examples where Zimmer Biomet team members • Medicoindustrien (Denmark)
have spoken up. Locally, team members participated in • MedTech Europe: Code of Ethical Business Practice
discussions with leaders, meet-and-greet events with • MedTech Sweden (Sweden)
Compliance team members, and educative trivia contests.
• MTAA Code of Practice (Australia)
• MTANZ Code of Practice (New Zealand)
We are also committed to compliance with a variety of
• Nefemed (Netherlands)
industry codes designed to ensure that relationships
• ORDER (Turkey)
with healthcare professionals and other customers
are conducted in accordance with the highest ethical • Salib-MedTech (Finland)
standards and transparency. These codes each recognize • SAMED: Medical Device Code of Ethical Marketing
that adherence to ethical standards and compliance and Business Practice (South Africa)
with applicable laws is critical to the industry’s ability to • SNITEM (France)
preserve and promote its collaboration with healthcare • Swiss Medtech (Switzerland)
professionals and serve to clarify and distinguish between
• Thai Medical Device Technology Industry
appropriate and inappropriate activity between healthcare
Association (Thailand)
professionals and companies.
Countering Corruption
Without reservation, Zimmer Biomet strongly endorses the
spirit and the letter of the industry codes for associations of The cornerstone of our best-in-class compliance program
which Zimmer Biomet is a member, including: is Zimmer Biomet’s commitment to ensuring that team
members and business partners conduct themselves
ethically and in compliance with all applicable laws,
regulations, industry codes, and our own policies, including
refraining from any bribery, kickback or corruption-related
activities.
21
We have established anti-bribery and anti-corruption Team members can use the hotline to report any concern
policies and procedures that cover, among other things, about a known or potential violation, concerns about safety
interactions with healthcare providers and government in the workplace, potential discrimination or harassment,
officials. These policies and procedures are reinforced unethical behavior by another team member or a third-
by a robust, interactive, annual training program as well party vendor or distributor, falsification of documents or
as periodic auditing and monitoring. Zimmer Biomet misuse of Zimmer Biomet resources.
has a zero-tolerance policy when it comes to bribery and
corruption. In addition to the “Speak Up Hotline”, concerns can also be
raised directly to managers or Compliance or HR business
Zimmer Biomet’s Global Third-Party Compliance team partners.
supports and monitors business partners, such as
distributors, to help ensure they adhere to the same Zimmer Biomet prohibits retaliation against anyone
ethical standards as our team members. Zimmer Biomet who makes a good faith report of a known or suspected
also performs anti-corruption due diligence prior to compliance or legal issue. Retaliation in any form is
engaging a third party, and periodically during the course unacceptable and not tolerated.
of our relationship with a third-party, in addition to third-
party compliance audits. In 2021, we introduced a new Our Compliance team tracks and oversees all reported
due diligence platform that provides improved real-time concerns from investigation to resolution. We have
visibility of the due diligence process, a more user-friendly instituted a robust and rigorous remediation process to
interface and enhanced reporting capabilities. ensure appropriate corrective actions are implemented
following all substantiated investigations, such as team
Zimmer Biomet also has a dedicated global compliance member separations, documented warnings and retraining.
investigations team staffed by experienced anti-corruption The Hotline Investigations Steering Committee guides and
investigators who manage and conduct all compliance ensures consistent disciplinary decision-making of these
investigations. actions. In addition, the Audit Committee of our Board of
Directors receives frequent reports on hotline complaints,
Whistleblower Program investigations and corrective actions.
Team members, business partners, customers and
In 2021, there were more than 90 compliance concerns
members of the public are encouraged and empowered to
reported and investigated. We had 100% completion of
speak up when they become aware of behavior that may be
all remediation activities arising from these compliance
in violation of Zimmer Biomet’s policies, applicable laws, or
investigations, in addition to audits and monitoring.
industry practices.
Every team member and business partner has a
responsibility as outlined in the Code of Business Conduct
and Ethics to be a voice of integrity.
100
In 2021, Zimmer Biomet introduced the new “Speak Up
%
Hotline” where concerns can be raised confidentially or
anonymously, 24 hours a day, seven days a week. The
“Speak Up Hotline” replaced a prior compliance hotline
platform that had been utilized for many years.
COMPLETION
REMEDIATION
ACTIVITIES
22
Ethical Marketing Zimmer Biomet’s Statement of
Engagement on Public Policy Issues
Zimmer Biomet is committed to marketing our products
and services truthfully, responsibly and professionally. We operate in a heavily regulated global marketplace and
We engage in marketing activities to, among other things, it is important to be able to express our views on a variety
announce the availability of new products and services, of proposals to policymakers and other stakeholders in
reinforce existing customer choices, differentiate Zimmer a transparent manner. These efforts include monitoring
Biomet products and services from other products and public policy proposals, analyzing these proposals and
services in the marketplace, and increase awareness advocating for those policies that enhance patient and
of medical technologies and treatments to healthcare healthcare provider access to innovative technologies to
professionals (HCPs), patients and others. treat debilitating joint pain and musculoskeletal conditions.
All marketing activities conducted by Zimmer Biomet must Zimmer Biomet is committed to participating constructively
have a commercially reasonable and legitimate business and responsibly in the public policy process. Government
purpose, and cannot involve cash, fees or other forms policy proposals to regulate the healthcare system may
of compensation provided directly or indirectly to HCPs directly affect Zimmer Biomet’s business and the incentives
or public officials. Marketing activities are also expected for innovation. There are also important policy proposals
to be separate from any company-sponsored training or that can further our business interests, including those of
education program. We do not use marketing to improperly our shareholders.
influence purchasing, leasing, recommendation, use,
prescription or coverage decisions associated with our Zimmer Biomet actively seeks to inform the debate on these
products and services. proposals in the United States and in other countries. We
also support policies that advance the interests of patients,
improve public health and promote access to healthcare
and innovation.
23
Our engagement in the political process is focused on the How Zimmer Biomet Engages
following areas:
The primary means by which we engage in public policy
• Access to musculoskeletal care
debate is through communication of information to
• Transparent, timely, and scientifically-based regulatory
government officials, policy makers and their staffs. Zimmer
decision-making
Biomet’s Government Affairs office in Washington, D.C. is
• Market-based payment or reimbursement
responsible for advocacy activities with the U.S. Congress
• Strong protection of patents and other intellectual
and the Executive Branch, as well as advocacy at the
property rights
state level. The Government Affairs office, which also has
• Open and competitive access to international markets
staff outside the United States, reports to the Senior Vice
• Tax policies that support innovation and global
President and General Counsel. Globally, we currently have
competitiveness
seven full-time employees wholly dedicated to Government
• Sensible medical malpractice reform
Affairs matters.
Specific policies of interest to Zimmer Biomet include the
To assist with its advocacy and policy analysis work,
following:
Zimmer Biomet occasionally contracts with private firms
• Corporate Tax Policy – Zimmer Biomet supported
specializing in government affairs advocacy. These firms
the changes to the U.S. corporate tax code in 2017,
provide the organization with expertise on issues that are
which created a more globally competitive system for
important to Zimmer Biomet and our shareholders.
U.S. businesses by lowering the corporate tax rate and
shifting to a territorial system.
In compliance with the U.S. Lobbying Disclosure Act,
• Stability in Payment Policies – As innovation in
Zimmer Biomet files quarterly reports with the U.S.
medical technology changes the way that care is
Congress describing our advocacy activities in Washington,
delivered, Zimmer Biomet supports payment and
D.C. and the amount of money spent each quarter to
reimbursement policies that ensure stability and
support these activities. These reports also include the cost
access for patients, providers, innovators and the
of maintaining the Government Affairs office in Washington,
entire healthcare ecosystem.
D.C. and the portion of Zimmer Biomet’s trade association
• Diversity, Equity and Inclusion – Zimmer Biomet
dues associated with advocacy activities. To view Zimmer
supports policies that strengthen a diverse and
Biomet’s quarterly lobbying expenditures, click on the
inclusive medical technology workforce and ensure
above link and search for Zimmer Biomet under registrant.
equitable patient access to innovative devices and
therapies.
All Zimmer Biomet team members and agents must abide
• Medical Device User Fee Amendments (MDUFA)
by our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. This Code
– Zimmer Biomet supports a well-resourced and well-
covers a wide range of business practices and procedures,
functioning U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA).
and is designed to deter wrongdoing and promote the
The long-standing user fee program has helped FDA
highest ethical standards. Among other things, the Code
make significant improvements to the regulatory
makes clear that no illegal payments of any kind (monetary
approval process for new medical devices. In 2021,
or otherwise) are to be offered or made to an individual or
Zimmer Biomet and its industry trade group began
entity—including officials or employees of national, state,
negotiations with FDA and Congress regarding
local or foreign governments or national or foreign political
changes to MDUFA in anticipation of legislation in
candidates—at any time or under any circumstances.
2022.
• Support for International Trade Agreements –
Zimmer Biomet supports trade policy initiatives that
seek to improve access to medical devices in overseas
export markets.
24
Industry Groups and Trade Associations
We have membership in several industry and trade
groups and we work with these groups on a variety of
issues of importance to Zimmer Biomet and the medical
device industry. These groups can help the industry reach
consensus on policy issues and be more effective with issue
advocacy.
With Zimmer Biomet representatives on the boards and The Z-PAC contributes to candidates and political
committees of industry groups and associations, we can committees on a bi-partisan basis, and does not make
ask questions and voice concerns about policy or related contributions in connection with U.S. Presidential elections.
activities. At times, we may not agree fully with the views of Contribution decisions are not made to reflect the personal
these associations or their individual member companies; political views or interests of senior management. In
in such instances, Zimmer Biomet reserves the right to deciding whom to support, consideration is given to
remove itself from related association or industry group candidates who represent the communities Zimmer Biomet
activities when we determine it is appropriate to do so. serves, those who serve on relevant committees or in
leadership and those who have shown support for policies
Following is a list of U.S. industry and trade groups of which and initiatives of importance to the U.S.
Zimmer Biomet is a member and for which we pay at least
$25,000 per year in membership fees, with the percentage Z-PAC contribution guidelines also emphasize the character
of fees attributable to non-tax deductible, federal lobbying and integrity of candidates, including the candidate’s
expenditures noted in italics: position on issues that may impair Zimmer Biomet’s
corporate reputation or are contrary to its values, such as
• Advanced Medical Technology Association the candidate’s positions and record in the area of diversity,
(AdvaMed) – 10% equity and inclusion. Contributions made by the Z-PAC
• Medical Device Competitiveness Coalition are, as required by law, reported in filings with the Federal
(MDCC) – 100% Election Commission (FEC). The most recent FEC report is
• U.S. Chamber of Commerce – 20-25% available here.
Political Contributions Following the events of January 6, 2021 at the U.S. Capitol
in Washington, DC, we halted our Z-PAC contributions, but
Zimmer Biomet’s policies prohibit contributions of
these contributions have since been partially reinstated. We
corporate funds to candidates, political party committees
continue to review our contribution decisions to ensure that
and political action committees. Contributions by Zimmer
our contribution strategy remains in line with the criteria
Biomet’s Political Action Committee (Z-PAC) – which is
outlined above.
supported entirely by voluntary contributions made by
eligible employees and non-employee directors – support
candidates, parties or committees whose views on specific
issues are consistent with Zimmer Biomet’s priorities. The
Z-PAC is governed by an Advisory Committee consisting of
representatives from across the Company’s U.S. business
units and business functions. The Advisory Committee
reviews Z-PAC activities and establishes policies and
priorities.
25
2021 Sustainability Accounting Standards Board Index
We are proud to publish Zimmer Biomet’s first Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Index. This reflects our
continued commitment to our sustainability efforts and increased transparency in our sustainability disclosures.
Topic Code SASB Metric 2021 Reporting
Affordability & Pricing HC-MS-240a.2 Description of how price information for each In the United States, a customer will typically
product is disclosed to customers or to their engage with a local sales representative who
agents will work with their local office to provide
pricing for products the customer is interested
in purchasing. Larger systems issue RFPs, which
Zimmer Biomet responds and then enters into
a formal agreement. Pricing is communicated
during the contract process and can either
be shared by hard copy (local, state or federal
government accounts), email or through
electronic interchanges.
Product Safety HC-MS-250a.1 Number of recalls issued, total units recalled 5 recalls in 2021.
Product Safety HC-MS-250a.3 Number of fatalities related to products as None
reported in the FDA Manufacturer and User
Facility Device Experience
Product Safety HC-MS-250a.4 Number of FDA enforcement actions taken In 2021, Zimmer Biomet did not receive any
in response to violations of current Good warning letters, seizures or consent decrees.
Manufacturing Practices (cGMP), by type
Ethical Marketing HC-MS-270a.1 Total amount of monetary losses as a result None
of legal proceedings associated with false
marketing claims
Ethical Marketing HC-MS-270a.2 Description of code of ethics governing Please see page 26
promotion of off-label use of products
Product Design & HC-MS-410a.1 Discussion of process to assess and N/A
Lifecycle Management manage environmental and human health
considerations associated with chemicals in
products, and meet demand for sustainable
products
Product Design & HC-MS-410a.2 Total amount of products accepted for takeback None
Lifecycle Management and reused, recycled, or donated, broken down
by: 1) devices and equipment and 2) supplies
26
Topic Code SASB Metric 2021 Reporting
Supply Chain HC-MS-430a.1 Percentage of 1) entity's facilities and 2) tier I 100% of Zimmer Biomet manufacturing
Management suppliers' facilities participating in third-party sites are audited by a third party and are ISO
audit programs for manufacturing and product certified. 50% of Tier 1 suppliers are audited
quality by a third party. The highest risk suppliers are
audited by a third party as part of their ISO
certification or are audited by a Zimmer Biomet
facility. Those suppliers not participating in
third-party audit programs have been vetted as
the lowest risk, given the minimal likelihood of
severity to the Zimmer Biomet quality system
based on a failure of the product or service to
meet specifications.
Supply Chain HC-MS-430a.2 Description of efforts to maintain traceability Zimmer Biomet and all distributors, including
Management within the distribution chain all sales and office staff, are required to
implement identification and traceability
controls. Distribution records must include
the customer's name, address, part number,
control number, date and quantity shipped.
The distribution record is maintained by
Zimmer Biomet from the time of receipt
through storage, handling and distribution
until the product is implanted into a patient,
permanently retired from use or permanently
disposed.
Supply Chain HC-MS-430a.3 Description of the management of risks Please see page 15
Management associated with the use of critical materials
Business Ethics HC-MS-510a.1 Total amount of monetary losses as a result of None
legal proceedings associated with bribery or
corruption
Business Ethics HC-MS-510a.2 Description of code of ethics governing Please see page 27
interactions with health care professionals
For ESG surveys please contact surveys@zimmerbiomet.com
For ESG inquiries please contact Keri Mattox at keri.mattox@zimmerbiomet.com
or Ezgi Yagci at ezgi.yagci@zimmerbiomet.com
27
©2022 Zimmer Biomet | www.zimmerbiomet.com | 3821.1-GLBL-en-Issue Date 2022-04
