2020
SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT
ENVIRONMENTAL
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
1
Table of Contents
COMPANY PROFILE Supplier Diligence ....................................................................11
Corporate Overview ..................................................................1 Supplier Quality Audits .............................................................11
Mission and Guiding Principles. .................................................1 Supplier Diversity Policy ...........................................................11
Our Sustainability Commitment ................................................1 Management of Risks Associated
with Use of Critical Materials ....................................................12
COVID-19 ...................................................................................3
Animal Testing Policy ...............................................................12
Critical Trial Program ...............................................................13
ENVIRONMENTAL
Critical Trial Transparency .......................................................13
Environmental Risk Management Policy ....................................4
Grants, Donations and Funding ...............................................14
Compliance ...........................................................................4
Zimmer Biomet Foundation .................................................14
Continuous Improvement ......................................................4
americares ..........................................................................14
Business Integration ..............................................................4
Faith In Practice ...................................................................14
Environment & Climate Change .............................................4
Access to Healthcare ...............................................................15
Health & Safety ......................................................................4
Movement is Life ......................................................................15
Communication & Education .................................................4
Patient Privacy and Data Security ............................................16
Environmental Targets ..............................................................5
Privacy ................................................................................17
Data Security .......................................................................17
SOCIAL
Data Usage ..........................................................................17
Talent Management ...................................................................6
Ownership ...........................................................................17
Performance Management ........................................................6
Cybersecurity ..........................................................................17
Culture Promises and Habits ......................................................6
Performance Coaching ..............................................................7
GOVERNANCE
Leadership Development ...........................................................7
Corporate Governance ............................................................18
New Hire Orientation .................................................................7
Audit Committee .................................................................18
Global Onboarding Checklist .....................................................7
Compensation and Management
Bookboon ..................................................................................7 Development Committee.....................................................18
Rational Programs .....................................................................7 Corporate Governance Committee ......................................19
Learning Management System ..................................................7 Quality, Regulatory and Technology Committee ..................19
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion ......................................................7 Executive Compensation .........................................................19
Employee Resource Group .........................................................8 Ethical Business Conduct .........................................................19
Employee Engagement ..............................................................8 Counter Corruption .................................................................21
Health, Safety & Wellness ..........................................................8 Whistleblower Program ...........................................................21
Work/Life Balance .....................................................................9 Ethical Marketing ....................................................................21
Pay Equity ..................................................................................9 Zimmer Biomet’s Statement of Engagement
on Public Policy Issues .............................................................22
Benefits .....................................................................................9
How Zimmer Biomet Engages ..................................................23
Collective Bargaining ................................................................9
Industry Groups and Trade Associations ..................................23
Discrimination Policy .................................................................9
Political Contributions .............................................................24
Product Quality .......................................................................10
2020 Sustainability Accounting Standards
Supplier Code of Conduct ........................................................10
Board Index .............................................................................25
Supplier Social Responsibility Audits ........................................11
COMPANY PROFILE
Corporate Overview Our Mission
Alleviate pain and improve the quality of life for people
Zimmer Biomet is a global medical technology leader with
around the world.
a comprehensive portfolio designed to maximize mobility
and improve health. We seamlessly transform the patient
Guiding Principles
experience through our innovative products and suite of
• Respect the contributions and perspectives
integrated digital and robotic technologies that leverage
of all Team Members.
data, analytics and artificial intelligence.
• Commit to the highest standards of patient safety,
quality and integrity.
With more than 90 years of trusted leadership and
• Focus our resources in areas where we will
proven expertise, Zimmer Biomet is positioned to deliver
make a difference.
the highest quality solutions to patients and providers.
• Ensure the Company’s return is equivalent
Our legacy continues to come to life today through our
to the value we provide our customers and patients.
progressive culture of evolution and innovation.
• Give back to our communities and people in need.
For more information about our product portfolio, our
Our Sustainability Commitment
operations in more than 25 countries and sales in more
Zimmer Biomet is committed to being a good corporate
than 100 countries, or about joining our team, visit
citizen. Our global team is dedicated to sustainable
www.zimmerbiomet.com or follow Zimmer Biomet
practices across the entire spectrum of the environmental,
on Twitter at www.twitter.com/zimmerbiomet.
social and governance platform.
1
COMPANY AWARDS
2
COVID-19
The COVID-19 pandemic has affected Zimmer Biomet’s promptly secured the transportation of raw and finished
financial results, but there has been no significant impact goods materials, as well as personal protective equipment
on our overall operations, manufacturing or strategy. inside and outside of the Asia Pacific (APAC) region.
Additionally, the pandemic has not impacted the quality,
safety and efficacy of our products. All of our manufacturing sites and distribution centers
outside of APAC implemented enhanced safety protocols
Prior to COVID-19, Zimmer Biomet developed and established regional health contacts prior to the
comprehensive crisis response plans and initiated pandemic spreading across all regions. Our enhanced
contingency drills – including for pandemic events – across safety protocols were openly shared with our suppliers
our operations. This exercise helped prepare the Company to ensure as secure a supply chain as possible. Zimmer
and create enhanced disaster recovery plans that have Biomet personnel not directly connected to manufacturing
been a significant benefit throughout our response to operations, and the supply chain shifted to work from
COVID-19. Accordingly, we were able to promptly secure home arrangements as an added safety measure to secure
our global supply chain in early 2020, as COVID-19 reached the supply chain and reduce risk of infection for all team
pandemic proportions, and continued operations without members.
compromising product quality and safety.
A measured approach to balance manufacturing and cash
Our China manufacturing facilities quickly recovered flow proved successful and since that time, our service
from the initial outbreak of COVID-19 and resumed full levels have been running at or above industry norms.
operations sooner than initially expected. Zimmer Biomet
3
ENVIRONMENTAL
Environmental Risk Management Policy Business Integration
Zimmer Biomet integrates EHSS principles into business
Consistent with Zimmer Biomet’s Mission, Code of Business
decisions to proactively ensure the health and safety of
Conduct and Ethics and the Environmental, Health, Safety,
our employees and communities while also promoting
and Sustainability (EHSS) Vision, we are committed to our
environmentally sustainable practices. Specifically,
policy of conducting business in a safe and environmentally
we require that an EHSS evaluation be integrated into
sustainable manner that promotes the health of our
product design, manufacturing and distribution business
employees, customers, community and the environment
processes and services that will reduce EHSS risks, improve
and that meets global EHSS requirements. The purpose of
performance throughout our operations, products and
our Environmental Risk Management Policy is to implement
packaging across their lifecycle, and promote pollution
the principles of the EHSS programs. Corporate and
prevention.
regional standards exist to support these principles.
Environment & Climate Change
This policy applies to all Zimmer Biomet locations
Zimmer Biomet minimizes waste and emissions, reuses
throughout the world. It provides uniform guidance for the
and recycles materials, promotes renewable energy use,
Zimmer Biomet EHSS teams to manage and monitor risk
reduces greenhouse gas emissions, and conserves energy
within the global manufacturing and distribution processes.
and water wherever feasible, to minimize our impact on the
As part of our EHSS Management System, Zimmer Biomet
environment.
commits to:
Health & Safety
Compliance
Zimmer Biomet EHSS establishes health and safety
Zimmer Biomet complies with all applicable EHSS
standards that promote a safe and healthy workplace by
laws, regulations, Company EHSS Standards and other
striving continuously to reduce hazards and risks to prevent
requirements to which the organization subscribes related
workplace injuries and illnesses.
to all EHSS subject matter and risks. Zimmer Biomet
conducts audits and implements best practices to ensure
Communication & Education
compliance with these requirements.
Zimmer Biomet EHSS communicates this policy to
employees, customers, shareholders, suppliers, community
Continuous Improvement
and other stakeholders. Zimmer Biomet EHSS Standards,
Zimmer Biomet establishes EHSS goals, objectives and
Procedures and other resources enable employees to
targets across our global business and strives to continually
implement this policy and share best practices throughout
improve our performance and publicly report on our
the Company in order to promote continuous improvement
progress. The Zimmer Biomet EHSS Standards establish
and enhance environmental, health and safety performance.
controls and promote a positive EHSS culture.
4
Environmental Targets
We believe the environmental issues facing the world warrant an urgent and immediate response. Since 2015, Zimmer Biomet has
achieved each of our environmental targets, including reductions in greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, landfill waste and water
usage. Zimmer Biomet has outfitted all major manufacturing and distribution sites globally with LED lighting. In addition, we
actively participate in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), with a 2020 ranking of B. In 2020, Zimmer Biomet publicly committed
to setting a science-based target for GHG emissions. In setting our science-based targets, we are focusing on Scope 1, 2 and 3
emissions. Furthermore, in 2020, construction commenced on a large-scale solar farm for which Zimmer Biomet negotiated a
Virtual Power Purchase Agreement (VPPA), which will offset our North American electrical load. We continue to pursue renewable
energies in other regions throughout the world in order to advance our commitment to becoming a recognized leader within the
environmental space. Additionally, we are proud that eight of our major manufacturing sites are zero waste to landfill, and we
continue to increase recycling as we reduce our landfill waste.
Since 2011, Zimmer Biomet has been a corporate sponsor of
ACRES Land Trust, Indiana’s oldest and largest membership-
based nonprofit land conservation organization. ACRES
protects more than 6,700 acres of forests, wetlands,
grasslands and unique geological features in more than 100
nature preserves, many of which are open to the public.
5
SOCIAL
One of Zimmer Biomet’s core strategic pillars is our Performance Management
dedication to being a ‘Best and Preferred Place to Work’
In 2020, we implemented a new approach to continuous
and we advance that priority with an integrated and multi-
performance management – Performance Connections
faceted approach. Below are just some of the highlights of
– which focuses on individual priority setting (>95%
our 2020 achievements in this area.
completion rate), mid-year career development
conversations and ongoing check-ins that include
Talent Management
a mechanism to request and receive feedback from
Zimmer Biomet supports a fair and competitive work managers, direct reports and colleagues. Frequent check-
environment and is dedicated to attracting and retaining ins are vital to driving a culture of accountability, and to
the best talent. We hire, compensate and promote based fostering a culture of engagement and connectivity, which
on qualifications, experience and skills. We offer all team is even more critical now given the rise in remote work
members globally a performance-based annual bonus arrangements.
opportunity that is tied to defined financial metrics.
Culture Promises and Habits
Zimmer Biomet is committed to helping our team members
Aligned with our Culture Promises and Habits, we
achieve their full potential. As such, we conduct annual
developed and deployed the Zimmer Biomet Leadership
talent reviews as part of our talent management processes.
360 Assessment as a tool for sharing insights into critical
leadership characteristics and attributes, which are
One component of talent management is to identify critical
important to bringing the Zimmer Biomet Culture Promises
roles that are aligned to our strategic pillar priorities. Given
and Habits to life. Leaders complete a self-assessment and
the high importance of these positions, we incorporate
solicit feedback from multiple stakeholders, including their
a clearly defined process to assess talent and ensure
manager, direct reports and peers. The insights from the
meaningful individual development plans are in place and
360-degree assessment process help inform development
activated.
planning and reinforce behaviors that align with our Culture
Promises.
6
Performance Coaching Rotational Programs
We implemented a train-the-trainer program with In 2020, we continued our focus on early career development
customized training content for our HR leaders across the through two rotational programs. Both the Finance and
APAC region to teach them how to be more effective coaches. Quality corporate functions hire new college graduates,
Virtual instructor-led sessions for people managers were typically from our co-op and intern population, into their
cascaded in Japan, Australia, India, Singapore and Malaysia. two-year programs, designed to accelerate individuals’
careers through rotational assignments.
Leadership Development
Learning Management System
We established iGrow, a regional leadership development
program that takes high potential emerging leaders In 2020, Zimmer Biomet completed a significant update
through team projects, learning and development activities, to our global Learning Management System (LMS), which
networking and team-building. In 2020, the group consisted improved the learner interface and team members’
of 21 team members from 15 functions across 12 countries. ability to locate and access on-demand courses, as well
The program offered participants an accelerated learning as streamlined administrator processes for assigning
experience to fast-track their journey to future leadership and maintaining training assignments. The Company
positions and saw 43 percent of the cohort promoted also reviewed training plans and implemented processes
during or shortly after program completion. that help ensure the right training is assigned to the right
people, eliminating the assignment of unnecessary courses
New Hire Orientation for many team members across the organization.
In 2020, we initiated our bi-weekly New Hire Orientation
(NHO) program, with a focus on grounding new team
members in the Company’s history, products, and
medical device/orthopedics industry. NHO helps new
team members transition efficiently and effectively into
the organization and prepares them to make meaningful
contributions to the Company’s success.
Global Onboarding Checklist
We developed and implemented a global, standard
onboarding checklist intended to help guide new team
members through more tactical and role-based steps that will
help them quickly become oriented to the organization, as well
as their team and position. Broken down into 30-60-90 day
sections, the checklist is designed to provide the new team
member with relevant information that will help them navigate
the organization and get off to the best start possible.
Bookboon Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
Zimmer Biomet continued to offer our team members Zimmer Biomet remains committed to creating, supporting
access to a free eLibrary, consisting of more than 650 and celebrating diverse and equal workplaces and
business eBooks and audio books available in a number communities. We continue to foster and embrace diversity
of different languages and with topics ranging from sales and inclusion within our team and our communities, and
and leadership skills to technical skills like PowerPoint and commit our voices and our resources to community groups,
Excel. These resources are intended to meet team members business platforms and other organizations united to
“where they are” by developing skills quickly through driving meaningful change and sustained improvement.
varied, curated micro-learning content.
7
Zimmer Biomet believes that representation matters. As of the globe and with keynote speakers including our Chief
December 31, 2020, women made up 36.1 percent of our Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer and Chief Human
total employee population, and 23.2 percent of positions Resources Officer, as well as our newly confirmed ERG
at Director level and above. People of Color (POC) made leaders. The new ERG strategy, aligned to drive business
up 24.5 percent of our total employee population in the results and team member engagement, was released
U.S., and comprised 13.9 percent of positions at Director during the relaunch. With a focused strategy and leaders
level and above. We are currently working to establish who believe deeply in the work, we will move forward in
2026 representation goals for women and POC at all levels the journey together to make Zimmer Biomet a Best and
of the organization, guided by internal data and external Preferred Place to Work.
benchmarking.
Employee Engagement
Core to Zimmer Biomet’s values is our commitment to
We greatly value our team members’ input and, to that
stand together against hatred, discrimination and injustice,
end, we conduct comprehensive employee engagement
and we advance these values through our actions and
surveys that ultimately inform our actions towards
investments. With this in mind, we have committed to the
improving our team member experience and engagement.
following initiatives to drive and accelerate change both
The surveys attempt to assess five drivers of engagement,
within our own organization and around the globe. We have
including purpose, culture, leadership, personal growth
shared these commitments publicly and are tracking our
and belonging. The results of surveys and commensurate
progress against them:
action plans are shared with our Board of Directors and with
• Engage our more than 20,000 global team members in
all global team members.
cultural awareness and inclusion programming.
• Invest $1 million and provide executive sponsorship to
We believe it is critically important to keep our team
support ongoing programs and elevate the impact of
members engaged through frequent and transparent
our employee resource groups (ERGs).
communication. This is accomplished through town
• Commit at least $5 million over five years through the
hall meetings, video and written messages, news and
Zimmer Biomet Foundation to nonprofit organizations
recognition on our intranet site, and various other channels.
dedicated to combating racism and supporting
To stay connected throughout the COVID-19 pandemic,
diversity, equality and justice. The Zimmer Biomet
our Chief Executive Officer kept team members informed
Foundation is an independent, nonprofit organization
of our priorities, financial results, management response
established in 2018 to address the needs of our global
and employee health and safety through frequent video
community.
messages and written communications.
• Match, through the Zimmer Biomet Foundation,
employee financial contributions to non-profit
Health, Safety & Wellness
organizations, including those dedicated to combating
racism and supporting diversity, equality and justice.
The physical and mental health, financial well-being
• Expand our student and early career internship
and work/life balance of our team members is vital to
programs to attract and develop more Black leaders.
accomplishing our Mission and achieving our goals. We
• Continue our financial support of Movement is Life, a
sponsor wellness programs designed to enhance physical,
multidisciplinary coalition seeking to eliminate racial,
financial and mental well-being, and encourage participation
ethnic and gender disparities in muscle and joint
in these programs through regular communications,
health.
educational sessions and other incentives.
Employee Resource Groups (ERGs)
We are also acutely focused on the health and safety of our
team members in the workplace. Our environmental, health
Zimmer Biomet’s team members reflect the global
and safety team constantly monitors various metrics to
communities in which we live and work. ERGs are trusted
ensure we are providing the safest environment in which to
groups of team members who create a space of belonging for
work. In 2020, our Total Recordable Incident Rate was 0.27
all team members and drive innovative business solutions
and our Lost Time Incident Rate was 0.11.
in support of the Zimmer Biomet Mission and diversity,
equity and inclusion strategy. Zimmer Biomet’s continued
investment in our ERGs has resulted in the elevation to
global scale. The global ERG program relaunched in March
2021 with strong participation from team members across
8
Benefits
We review our benefits each plan year considering both
our team member population as well as market benefit
practices to ensure we are competitive in our offerings.
Over the last six years, we have focused on key areas for
women, family and individual health:
• For women’s health, we continue to offer key
preventative services and for mothers, we provide
opportunities to help support and transition back to
Work/Life Balance
the workforce.
• Team members and their families are assisted through
Zimmer Biomet recognizes that a healthy balance in work
many stages of life for a family. In 2019, we increased
and life is vital. Our full-time team members receive paid
Infertility benefits and the number of Parental Leave
holidays and paid time off that is based on length of service.
days while continuing to provide child care discounts
When life events occur, such as the birth or adoption of a
at multiple day care facilities.
child or the loss of a loved one, team members receive paid
• We understand our team members have individualized
time off to focus on their families.
needs and we offer programs to support them such as
employee assistance programs (EAP) counseling, as
We have also rolled out a Virtual Workplace Program that
well as benefits such as transgender surgery/medical
enables designated part-time and full-time team members
benefits which started in January 2017.
to effectively work remotely. Team members must be
• We continue to assess the above key areas annually
in a position designated by the Company as eligible for
and adjust offerings as needed to support our team
virtual work. In making that determination, the Company
members.
considered the requirements of the role, the cost of
supporting the virtual work arrangement, nature of the
Collective Bargaining
work, required technology support and other relevant
factors. Team members must be in good standing, meaning
Zimmer Biomet has more than 20,000 active team members
they have demonstrated satisfactory performance, in order
globally, approximately 200 of which are affiliated with a
to be eligible for a virtual work arrangement.
U.S. collective bargaining agreement.
Pay Equity
Discrimination Policy
We are committed to our pay equity process, with annual
Zimmer Biomet is an equal opportunity employer and is fully
pay equity reviews conducted since 2016, following
committed to a policy of treating all of our team members
the merger of Zimmer and Biomet. Our comprehensive
and job applicants equally.
pay equity review covers pay, promotions and new hire
practices. This includes various types of pay, such as base We take all reasonable steps to employ, train and promote
salary, bonus, long-term incentives and new hire sign-on team members on the basis of their experience, abilities and
awards (cash or equity). qualifications without regard to race, color, ethnic origin,
nationality, national origin, religion or belief, sex, sexual
Prior to 2019, the pay equity review was focused on gender orientation, gender reassignment, age, marital or civil
differences, with any identified pay issue also being partnership status or disability.
reviewed for ethnicity against similarly situated positions.
Starting in 2019, we further enhanced our analysis to review The Company also takes all reasonable steps to provide a
pay differences by gender, age, ethnicity and location. Each work environment in which all team members are treated
year we assess our analysis capabilities to identify areas of with respect and dignity and that is free of harassment
opportunity. based upon an employee’s race, color, ethnic origin,
nationality, national origin, religion or belief, sex, sexual
Human Resources coordinates the Company’s process to orientation, gender reassignment, age, marital or civil
address any issues identified from the pay equity analysis. partnership status or disability.
Individuals identified in the annual pay equity review
continue to have their annual progress monitored in order Zimmer Biomet does not condone any form of harassment,
to ensure that any pay issues are resolved. whether engaged in by team members or by outside third
parties who do business with the Company.
9
Product Quality
Zimmer Biomet is committed to best-in-class product We are advancing automation in manufacturing, quality
quality and the robustness of our Quality Management systems and inspection and measurement methods such as
System. Every site has a stringent internal quality audit Manufacturing Execution System (MES), Design Controls
program. In addition, we have an independent corporate and Risk Management Software (The Vault), and InfinityQS.
quality audit program and are frequently audited by
external regulatory bodies such as the U.S. Food and Drug We have rolled out the Quality Begins With Me program
Administration (FDA) and other competent authorities across the entire Zimmer Biomet network. This is a
around the world. Corporate audit and external audit results structured culture enhancement program with a mission to
are closely monitored and reported at regular management promote a blame free culture of driving proper behaviors,
review meetings, and the Company maintains a detailed set empowering team members to promote operational
of key performance indicators in the quality area. In addition, excellence and creating a singular binding focus on quality
the Quality, Regulatory and Technology Committee of and compliance improvements. The program is intended to
the Board of Directors receives a comprehensive quality drive flawless execution to achieve doing things right the
presentation at each quarterly meeting. first time and every time.
We have multiple manufacturing sites proactively We implemented Class A and Operational Excellence
participating in the Medical Device Innovation Consortium initiatives across all of our manufacturing sites to drive
and the FDA Case for Quality Voluntary Improvement a continuous improvement culture and manufacturing
program. For more information on this program, visit and supply chain excellence. As evidence of this effort,
https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/quality-and- Oliver Wight has certified Class A in our Ireland sites and
compliance-medical-devices/case-quality we have moved to self-implementation and certification
in the remaining facilities. For more information, visit
Furthermore, we have a stringent supply chain monitoring https://www.oliverwight-americas.com/services/class-a-
program inclusive of quality, delivery and cost measures. standard-for-business-excellence/
In recent years, Zimmer Biomet has made substantial We have implemented Green Belt and Black Belt employee
progress on quality system enhancements and remediation certification programs aimed at teaching and utilizing
across our network. As of June 2021, the Company has only essential LEAN tools to drive waste reduction through
one pending FDA Warning Letter, which pertains to our continuous improvement, as well as to drive out variation
Warsaw, Indiana North Campus facility. The 2012 Ponce, by applying Define, Measure, Analyze, Improve and Control
Puerto Rico FDA Warning Letter was successfully cleared (DMAIC) problem-solving methodology and to make data-
in 2020 after multiple positive follow-up FDA inspections. driven decisions through proven quality tools and statistical
While the Warning Letter at the Warsaw North facility methods.
remains active, following an FDA re-inspection in 2020, the
FDA classified the site as Voluntary Action Indicated, or VAI. We are also working toward compliance and certification
with the European Union Medical Device Regulation
We have made significant investments in Quality standards by 2024.
Management System remediation and upgrades over the
past four years. While these enhancements continue, we are Supplier Code of Conduct
very encouraged that these efforts have already resulted in
Zimmer Biomet strives to achieve and maintain the highest
a 60 percent reduction in FDA product recalls during that
possible standards of corporate integrity and ethical
time.
behavior. We expect that our suppliers will conduct their
Forms Warning
business not only in a lawful manner but also in compliance
Class 1 Class 2 Class 3 483 Letters
with the same high standards of integrity and ethics. In
Year Recalls Recalls Recalls Received Received
order to establish guidelines for such standards, Zimmer
2016 1 40 1 3 1
Biomet has instituted a Code of Supplier Conduct, available
2017 1 62 0 7 0
at
2018 1 48 0 3 1 https://www.zimmerbiomet.com/content/dam/zimmer-
2019 1 24 0 3 0 biomet/sourcing/Zimmer-Biomet-Supplier-Code-of-
Conduct.pdf
2020 0 21 0 1 0
10
At a minimum, suppliers must conduct business in risk classification; and (iii) the Supplier Audit Plan details the
accordance with all applicable country, state and local information found during the audit and the attendees. All
laws and regulations covering the jurisdictions in which information gathered from the auditing process is stored
they operate, including, without limitation, laws relating in a global system and accessible to all Zimmer Biomet
to employment, human rights, the environment, health businesses.
and safety and trade. Each supplier is to comply with
the commercial best practices of the supplier’s industry. Supplier Diversity Policy
Zimmer Biomet reserves the right to decline to deal with
We believe that a diverse supply chain strengthens our
suppliers who do not comply with the law or our standards.
ability to carry out our Mission and improve the communities
in which we live and work. Zimmer Biomet’s Supplier
Zimmer Biomet also has taken steps to ensure that slavery
Diversity Policy in the United States and Puerto Rico assists
and human trafficking is not taking place in our supply
in establishing and maintaining business relationships with
chains or any parts of our business operations through
suppliers that are either certified in diverse categories by
the UK Modern Slavery Act of 2015 and the California
the Small Business Administration or self-certified where
Transparency in Supply Chains Act of 2010.
applicable.
https://www.zimmerbiomet.com/content/dam/zimmer-
biomet/homepage/CA%20Transparency%20and%20
We assign a Small Business Liaison Officer (SBLO) as an
UK%20MSA%20Statement.pdf
administrator for the Supplier Diversity Program. The SBLO
assures that reports documenting procurement levels,
Supplier Social Responsibility Audits
broken down by supplier classification, are prepared as
Zimmer Biomet conducts social responsibility audits with all requested by government agencies and contract groups.
new suppliers in high risk regions and on existing suppliers Annual Summary Subcontract Reports and Year End
every three years. Forty-seven suppliers were audited in Supplementary Small Disadvantaged Business (SDB)
2019 with no major findings. Social Responsibility audits Reports are submitted according to existing Small Business
are planned every three years; the next round of audits will Administration and U.S. Government mandates.
occur in 2022.
Zimmer Biomet’s diversity reporting obligations to the
Supplier Diligence U.S. Federal Government include spending in the United
States and Puerto Rico in the following six diverse supplier
For all new proposed international suppliers, due diligence
categories annually:
investigations are conducted by the Zimmer Biomet
1. Historically Underutilized Business Zone Small
Compliance team to make sure the third party is not on any
Business (HUBZone)
watch lists. This global due diligence review starts at the
2. Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business
front end of the request process. Ongoing due diligence is
(SDVOSB)
conducted annually for existing suppliers.
3. Small Business (SB)
4. Small Disadvantaged Business (SDB)
Supplier Quality Audits
5. Veteran-Owned Small Business (VOSB)
New and existing supplier audit plans are established based 6. Women-Owned Small Business (WOSB)
on the applicable Quality Management System (QMS)
requirement for the product/service the supplier provides.
The applicable QMS requirements are focused on FDA
and International Organization for Standardization (ISO)
standards. These standards include FDA 21 CFR 820 and
ISO 13485.
Zimmer Biomet has three global procedures detailing the
process: (i) the Supplier Questionnaire is used to collect a
variety of information on the supplier, including an overview
of the supplier’s quality system; (ii) the Supplier Qualification
Report determines which audit plan will be followed and the
11
Management of Risks Associated
with Use of Critical Materials Animal Testing Policy
Zimmer Biomet has a Global Supply Risk Management Zimmer Biomet’s utilization of animal testing is consistent
process. We have established a systematic approach to: with animal welfare acts around the world. We utilize
• Ensure continuity of supply for goods and services animal testing when required to demonstrate biological
• Proactively manage (identify, assess, mitigate and safety for our products that cannot be demonstrated by
monitor) potential supply risks which may result in laboratory benchtop tests or when required to demonstrate
product delays and/or revenue impact to the business compliance with medical device regulations. The
• Ensure that a global process is being utilized across the laboratories that Zimmer Biomet engages for animal testing
Zimmer Biomet Global Sourcing Organization typically have American Association for Accreditation of
Laboratory Animal Care (AAALAC) certification or have
A key component in risk monitoring is the financial their own animal research committee (i.e., an independent
impacts that might occur in raw material scarcity and/or review committee) to ensure compliance with national
physical disruptions of Zimmer Biomet’s own operations animal welfare acts. Zimmer Biomet does not perform
or in the operations of our supply chain. To mitigate these animal testing directly; the work is contracted to labs.
risks, Zimmer Biomet utilizes a third party to rank our top
suppliers against 73 financial ratios on a scale of 1-100 to Clinical Trial Program
understand the overall financial health of these suppliers.
Zimmer Biomet operates a robust global clinical research
It is considered to have substantive strategic impact on
Zimmer Biomet’s business if suppliers score below a 20 program that strives to collect meaningful clinical evidence
in this rating. Through a third-party vendor, the Company to support our vast portfolio of products that ultimately
obtains international private company financial statements help alleviate pain and improve the quality of life for people
and has a greater than 85 percent success rate (and above around the world. Our clinical research programs support
90 percent in certain markets) to measure the core health the safety and effectiveness of our products, services
of a supplier out to 36 months, and predicating probability and technologies in a compliant and transparent manner.
of default over 12 to 18 months via a quantitative model to Zimmer Biomet supported clinical trials are conducted
generate a rating.
12
across many different programs, including sponsored multi- market value calculations. Clinical trial support can range
center global clinical trials, as well as Company supported from monetary funding, providing in-kind product, or even
smaller investigator initiated clinical trials. the loaning of specialized instrumentation and equipment.
In addition to the internal Zimmer Biomet review and
Zimmer Biomet conducts studies all over the world that are approval processes, all clinical studies are required to be
managed by our global Clinical Affairs teams. These teams reviewed and approved by an Institutional Review Board
manage our regulated and post-market studies and are or Ethics Committee that is independent of both Zimmer
located in key locations across the globe. In all instances, Biomet and the participating investigational centers.
these programs and teams adhere to Zimmer Biomet
policies and procedures that incorporate the standards set Clinical Trial Transparency
forth in the International Conference on Harmonization, the
Zimmer Biomet supports clinical research to foster
Declaration of Helsinki, Good Clinical Practice guidelines
advances in clinical knowledge and furthering medical
and the AdvaMed Code of Ethics.
device development related to our products and
programs. As such, clinical trial transparency is required
To protect the rights, safety and well-being of clinical trial
to appropriately contribute to and comply with the
participants, Zimmer Biomet has an overarching global
International Committee of Medical Journal Editors (ICMJE)
procedure for Conducting Clinical Research Involving
initiative and Food and Drug Administration Amendments
Human Subjects, GBL12000. This procedure also ensures
Act (FDAAA) requirements by utilizing ClinicalTrials.gov to
that the clinical research from our clinical trials is qualified
register our active clinical studies and study results once
and reliable and can be used by worldwide regulatory
they are available. All study results are posted, regardless
authorities. As part of our procedures, clinical trials are
of whether the trial is deemed successful or failed to meet
reviewed and approved by several cross-functional internal
the primary end point. A sample listing of Zimmer Biomet
committees, including a Clinical Investigation Review
clinical trials can be found at ClinicalTrials.gov.
Committee and a Clinical Research Review Committee.
Clinical trials are only approved if they are scientifically
sound, meet a well-defined business need and are within fair
13
Grants, Donations and Funding
American
redcross.org
Zimmer Biomet Foundation Red Cross
As an independent, philanthropic and non-profit
organization, the Zimmer Biomet Foundation (ZBF) Americares americares.org
improves the quality of life for our communities by providing
resources to help: build healthy communities; advance Arthritis
arthritis.org
STEM education; provide disaster relief; and address Foundation
healthcare disparities while advancing diversity, equity and
inclusion. Beaman Home thebeamanhome.com
Big Brothers
In 2020, the ZBF established the Team Member Relief bbbs.org
Big Sisters
Fund to help support Zimmer Biomet team members
facing financial hardships due to personal or catastrophic
Cardinal
tragedies. One example of the ZBF’s contributions to global cardinalservices.org
Services
pandemic relief was a $50,000 grant to Direct Relief, a
humanitarian aid organization active in all 50 states and
Combined
more than 80 countries focused on improving the health
Community combinedcommunityservices.org
and lives of people affected by poverty and emergencies.
Services
As part of its 2020 COVID-19 response efforts, Direct Relief
provided much needed support to numerous countries
Direct Relief directrelief.org/
in the APAC, Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA), and
Americas regions, including delivering personal protective
Kosciusko
equipment, surgical masks and intensive care unit
Community kcymca.org
medication kits.
YMCA
The ZBF also launched a program to match team member
Lilly Center
donations to approved non-profit organizations with a
for Lakes & lakes.grace.edu
dollar-for-dollar match.
Streams
Zimmer Biomet proudly supports team members United Way unitedway.org
volunteering in their communities and abroad by offering
resources to match team members with volunteer Warsaw
opportunities and work policies that allow them to take the Community warsaw.k12.in.us
time to support their community. Schools
In 2020, the ZBF announced a $2 million partnership with
In addition, Zimmer Biomet donated orthopedic products
the National Association for the Advancement of Colored
to support more than 10 philanthropic medical mission
People (NAACP) to focus on expanding medical access
trips in 2020 to help patients in need around the globe. Due
for people of color by establishing a health-related Black
to the pandemic, several planned medical mission trips
Opportunity Index.
were postponed and rescheduled for future dates. Zimmer
Biomet continued to partner with Faith in Practice by
Numerous organizations received support from the ZBF
donating a replenishment of implant inventory necessary
throughout 2020. Zimmer Biomet continued to fund the
to continually perform charitable surgeries in Guatemala.
ZBF with a large contribution in 2020, allowing ZBF to
Additionally, we continue to support charitable surgeries in
continue charitable work globally.
the U.S. by donating implants through Americares. In 2020,
Americares was able to support approximately 40 charitable
The ZBF provided donations and funding to various
surgeries in the U.S. with Zimmer Biomet implants.
organizations to support community and global projects in
2020, including:
14
americares the American Association of Latino Orthopaedic Surgeons,
Saves lives and improves health for people affected by which represents not only members of Latino descent,
poverty or disaster so they can reach their full potential. but all orthopedists who treat members of the Latino and
www.americares.org Hispanic communities.
Faith in Practice
Committed to serving the poor of Guatemala through short- Access to Healthcare
term medical mission tripsthat take an integrated approach
Movement is Life
to care that strives to reach those in the greatest need.
Since 2004, Zimmer Biomet has funded initiatives that
www.faithinpractice.org
focus on defining and reducing musculoskeletal disparities.
Movement is Life, a multi-disciplinary coalition, partners
In 2020, Zimmer Biomet provided grants, donations and
with thought leaders and national member organizations
funding for numerous educational and philanthropic
aligned to create sustainable change in marginalized
projects. These included grants to support orthopedic post-
populations. The coalition is dedicated to the elimination of
graduate medical education, including funding to OMeGA
racial, ethnic, geographic and gender disparities in muscle
Medical Grants Association. OMeGA is an independent
and joint health by promoting physical mobility to improve
legal entity with a singular mission: to award and administer
quality of life among African American, Hispanic and rural
grants for graduate orthopedic medical education through
women.
an open, accessible process designed to safeguard against
potential conflicts of interest and to ensure transparency in
Movement is Life programs include:
the allocation of resources. Zimmer Biomet also provided
• Operation Change, a community based public health
educational grants to support independent medical
intervention focused on positive behavior modification
education conferences that promote scientific knowledge,
in individuals who suffer from joint pain and chronic
medical advancement and the delivery of effective
comorbid conditions such as diabetes and obesity.
healthcare. In addition, Zimmer Biomet provided grants
• The “Start Moving Start Living” website that serves
to third-party organizations for independent research
as a repository for culturally competent patient
to advance patient treatment designed for improved
communication tools to raise awareness about the
outcomes.
health risks associated with immobility in the United
States.
Funding was also provided to support programs that
• During the 2020 legislative session, Movement is Life
promote diversity and multiculturalism in medical schools
worked with the late Congressman John Lewis to create
and in surgeon professional development, as well as
the Equality in Medicare Medicaid Treatment (EMMT)
industry minority initiatives to raise orthopedic treatment
Act. The EMMT bill would require the collection of data
awareness and support higher education. One example
prior to the distribution of funds. By doing so, it would
of diversity-related funding is the support we provide to
improve the distribution of resources based on need
The Perry Initiative, which is committed to inspiring young
to the disparate communities, thus providing more
women to be leaders in the fields of orthopedic surgery and
equitable healthcare.
engineering.
Zimmer Biomet is the Founding Sponsor of Nth Dimensions,
an educational non-profit organization created to help
increase diversity of women and underrepresented
minorities in the field of orthopedics, including pre-
medical students, medical students and residents. We are
a corporate partner of the J. Robert Gladden Orthopaedic
Society, a multi-cultural organization with a mission to
increase diversity within the orthopedic profession. We
also provide support to the Ruth Jackson Orthopedic
Society, which is dedicated to advancing the science and
practice of orthopedic surgery among women, as well as
15
Patient Privacy and Data Security
Privacy
At Zimmer Biomet, the patient is always the patient, and There have never been more opportunities to use
never the product. Patient data is used to improve outcomes information collected in the course of treatment
and create value for patients and their care teams through to create innovative solutions to improve patient
our algorithms, systems and products in order to support outcomes. At the same time, the importance of
our commitment to the highest standards of patient safety, protecting patient privacy has never been higher.
quality and integrity.
At Zimmer Biomet, privacy is built into our products
Our commitment to protecting patient and customer data is by design and by default, and we work to ensure that
embodied in our four Privacy and Data Security Pillars: privacy measures are fully integrated into our products
• Privacy. Zimmer Biomet maintains robust practices and services. By taking this approach, Zimmer Biomet
to help ensure that that right is protected. Patients and products and services accommodate privacy in an
customers decide what they share with us. effective and user-friendly way.
• Security. Zimmer Biomet protects the data that
patients and customers entrust us with through In 2020, Zimmer Biomet engaged with OneTrust, the
strong safeguards. Among other measures, we apply industry-leading privacy management solution, to
encryption in transit and at rest, scheduled security risk further embed privacy in our products and services. Our
assessments and penetration testing by third parties. mymobility platform, for example, is now supported
• Data usage. Zimmer Biomet will only use customer with a dedicated portal for individuals to exercise
and patient data to provide the services we have their privacy rights, with user-friendly features such
agreed upon, and for purposes that are compatible as explanatory hovertext, local-language accessibility,
with providing those services. and automated identity verification. We want to make
• Ownership. We put patients and customers in control it as easy as possible for patients to communicate their
of their data and have established tools and processes privacy preferences.
that give patients easy options to exercise their rights
with respect to their personal data.
16
Cybersecurity
Data Security
Zimmer Biomet implements and verifies stringent Zimmer Biomet understands a strong cybersecurity
security requirements to protect data we hold for program is essential in today’s business landscape and
patients and customers. These include a broad array has continued to invest in people, processes and next
of security controls, including encryption, third- generation cybersecurity technology solutions to combat
party penetration testing, malware defenses, access this evolving risk. Cyber threats will continue to emerge
limitations and auditing. We also have our compliance and evolve, so we manage cyber-risks in alignment with
with security requirements arising under Health industry best practices.
Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA),
General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), California Our commitment to cybersecurity includes a programmatic
Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA), LGPD (Brazil) and other approach aiming to protect the confidentiality, integrity
key data protection regulations reviewed and verified and availability of our systems, data and products. This
by third-party experts. We are transparent regarding continuous process ensures that measures are in place to
our security controls so that customers can understand improve and update our cybersecurity program using key
and document the ways in which their information is methods such as independent assessments, penetration
protected. testing, vulnerabilities scanning and obtaining key industry
certifications.
Data Usage
Zimmer Biomet ensures that information is only Zimmer Biomet has a dedicated global security operations
collected, used and disclosed for permissible purposes. team that executes the cybersecurity incident response plan
Through our contracts with customers, notice and and conducts regular exercises to gauge our preparedness
consent forms, and other means, we are transparent and effectiveness. Utilizing our cybersecurity awareness
about the ways we use information to create value for program, we have increased awareness of cyber threats to
patients and providers. We have implemented robust users globally and continue to share best practices with all
policies, procedures and trainings designed to ensure our team members.
that patients’ and customers’ information is being
handled consistent with those statements. The cybersecurity program is led by Zimmer Biomet’s Chief
Information Security Officer and the Chief Information
Ownership Officer, and regular progress updates are presented to the
The patient, provider and Zimmer Biomet each have Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.
rights and responsibilities regarding data collected in
the course of treatment.
Zimmer Biomet’s customer engagements, patient
consents and notices and other privacy and information
security practices are designed to ensure that these
rights and responsibilities are respected.
17
GOVERNANCE
Corporate Governance Directors held in conjunction with each regularly scheduled
Board meeting, reviews and provides input on meeting
At Zimmer Biomet, the way we conduct our business is
agendas for the Board and its committees, and provides
critically important. We are committed to effective corporate
feedback on the flow of information from management to
governance, adhering to the highest ethical standards and
the Board. The Lead Independent Director is also available,
acting as a responsible member of our communities.
as appropriate, for direct communication with shareholders.
Our business is managed under the direction of our Board
Zimmer Biomet has developed risk management processes
of Directors. The Board has responsibility for establishing
designed to promote long-term shareholder value with
broad corporate policies and for our overall performance.
oversight by the Board of Directors. Sustainability topics are
incorporated into our risk management processes. Various
As of May 15, 2021, our Board is made up of ten Directors.
executive leadership team members have responsibility
Directors are nominated based on their skills, experiences,
for implementing processes designed to identify, evaluate,
backgrounds and the needs of the Board and our Company.
mitigate and monitor risks. Reviews of key risks occur at
Every Director must stand for election annually. At all times,
regularly scheduled meetings of the Board of Directors
a majority of the Board of Directors must meet the criteria
and its committees. The Board executes its oversight
for independence established by applicable laws and
responsibility for risk management directly and through its
regulations and the New York Stock Exchange. All of our
committees:
Directors, except our Chairman, are independent.
Audit Committee
Directors are recruited to strengthen the Board’s diversity
Oversight Areas:
and ensure that the Board reflects and understands the
• The integrity of our financial statements
diverse perspectives of Zimmer Biomet’s stakeholders
• The performance of our Internal Audit function
around the globe. Three of our ten Directors (30%) are
• Our compliance with legal and regulatory
women, three (30%) are ethnically diverse, one (10%)
requirements
identifies as LGBTQ+, and four (40%) were born outside the
• Our Corporate Compliance Program
United States. Further, of our four Board committees, one
• Privacy, data security, business continuity and
(25%) is chaired by a woman.
cybersecurity-related risk exposures
The Board recognizes the importance of having a
Compensation and Management
strong independent Board leadership structure to
Development Committee
ensure accountability. Accordingly, our Corporate
Oversight Areas:
Governance Guidelines provide for the appointment of
• The compensation of our senior executives
a Lead Independent Director when the Chairman is not
• Our incentive and equity-based compensation plans
independent. The Board believes that a Lead Independent
and programs
Director is an integral part of our Board structure and
• Senior management talent and development plans (in
facilitates the effective performance of the Board in its
conjunction with the full Board)
role of providing governance and oversight. Among other
• Our policies and strategies relating to human capital
duties and responsibilities, the Lead Independent Director
management (in conjunction with the full Board)
convenes and presides at meetings of the independent
Directors, including executive sessions of the independent
18
Corporate Governance Committee our FDA inspection results, it could result in a decrease (but
Oversight Areas: not an increase) to executives’ 2020 bonus payouts by up
• Our public policy, government relations and advocacy to five percent (5%). In 2020, across our global network,
activities we resolved one FDA Warning Letter, we received no new
• Our sustainability activities, including initiatives FDA Warning Letters and our average number of Form 483
related to the environment observations per inspection was less than 3.0. As a result,
• Our community relations activities and charitable the global quality bonus modifier had no impact on our
contributions executives’ 2020 bonus payouts.
• Our initiatives related to promoting access to
healthcare and other social responsibility issues For more information on our executive compensation
philosophy and programs, please see our 2021 proxy
Quality, Regulatory and Technology Committee statement
Oversight Areas:
• Product quality and safety Ethical Business Conduct
• Risks relating to our compliance with laws and
At Zimmer Biomet, we are committed to being a leader in
regulations enforced by the U.S. Food and Drug
the area of ethics and compliance. Every day we strive for
Administration and comparable foreign government
the highest standards of patient safety, quality and integrity
regulators
in all that we do.
• Research, innovation and technology initiatives
Whether working with surgeons, regulators, distributors,
Executive Compensation
partners or fellow team members, we know that what we do
Our executives receive fixed compensation (base salary), to contribute to the company’s Mission is just as important
as well as short-term and long-term performance-based as how we do it.
compensation. Applicable performance metrics and targets
align executives’ interests with those of Zimmer Biomet This was especially true during the last year as Zimmer
shareholders and are approved by the Compensation and Biomet navigated the challenges associated with the
Management Development Committee of our Board of COVID-19 pandemic. Leadership and team members
Directors. alike remained focused on doing business the right way to
uphold our high ethical standards as we transitioned many
We are committed to the highest standards of patient safety of our in-person healthcare professional interactions and
and quality in our products and services and to world-class training to virtual settings.
integrity and ethical business practices. In support of this
commitment, and to drive accountability for compliance Our commitment to doing business with integrity is guided
with, and sustained improvements in, our global quality by our comprehensive compliance policies and procedures
system, the Compensation and Management Development which help team members navigate the applicable laws,
Committee included a global quality bonus modifier regulations and industry codes, as well as Zimmer Biomet’s
component to executives’ annual cash incentive plan in own ethical standards. These standards are outlined in
2020. The modifier was designed such that, based on the Zimmer Biomet’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics.
achievement of specified global quality metrics related to
19
The Code defines ZB’s approach to delivering high In addition, Zimmer Biomet is committed to compliance
performance with high integrity and articulates the ethical with a variety of industry codes designed to ensure that
standards by which team members are held accountable. relationships with healthcare professionals and other
It also guides and inspires positive interactions with customers are conducted in accordance with the highest
customers and with people in the communities in which we ethical standards and transparency. We endorse and
live and work. are committed to complying with the relevant codes for
industry associations of which Zimmer Biomet is a member,
To ensure that every team member understands and is including:
accountable for our Code, Zimmer Biomet: • ABHI (UK)
• Provides the Code in 31 languages so team members
• ABIMED Code of Conduct (Brazil)
can read it in their first language
• ABIMO (Brazil)
• Requires training on the Code for all new hires within
• ABRAIDI (Brazil)
60 days of their start date and retrains all existing team
• AdvaMed China (China)
members on the Code annually
• AdvaMed Code of Ethics (United States)
• American Medical Devices and Diagnostics
In 2020:
Manufacturers’ Association (Japan)
100
% • 100 percent of team • AMID (Mexico)
members successfully
• APOMED (Portugal)
completed the Code
COMPLETED • ARTED (Turkey)
ETHICS TRAINING of Business Conduct
• Austromed: Verhaltenskodex (Austria)
& Ethics training
• beMedTech (Belgium)
• BVMed: Kodex Medizinprodukte (Germany)
• CANIFARMA (Mexico)
Since 2016, Zimmer Biomet has conducted an annual
• Confindustria dispositivi medici (Italy)
Compliance Week to further strengthen our compliance
culture by engaging team members across the globe with • CZECHMED (Czech Republic)
activities and communications that promote ethics and • Fenin Code of Ethics (Spain)
integrity. • IMEDA (CIS)
• Instituto Ética Saúde (Brazil)
• Korea Medical Devices Industry Association (Korea)
• Mecomed Code of Ethical Business Practice
(Middle East)
• Medical Technology Association of India (India)
• Medical Technology Industry Group (Singapore)
• Medicoindustrien (Denmark)
• MedTech Europe: Code of Ethical Business Practice
• MedTech Sweden (Sweden)
• MTAA Code of Practice (Australia)
• MTANZ Code of Practice (New Zealand)
• Nefemed (Netherlands)
In 2020: • ORDER (Turkey)
• Team members embraced the virtual format of the
• Salib-MedTech (Finland)
Compliance Week celebration by:
• SAMED: Medical Device Code of Ethical Marketing
◊ Tuning in to watch the Integrity in Action
and Business Practice (South Africa)
Compliance Conversations video series between
• SNITEM (France)
our Compliance leadership and some of Zimmer
• Swiss Medtech (Switzerland)
Biomet’s most important stakeholders
• Taiwan Advanced Medical Technology Association
◊ Participating in local and global activities
(TAMTA) Code (Taiwan)
highlighting how to put integrity into action
• Thai Medical Device Technology Industry
Association (Thailand)
20
Countering Corruption
The cornerstone of our best-in-class compliance program Zimmer Biomet’s Compliance function tracks and oversees
is Zimmer Biomet’s commitment to ensuring that team all reported concerns from investigation to resolution. The
members and business partners conduct themselves Company has developed a robust and rigorous remediation
ethically and in compliance with all applicable laws, process to ensure appropriate corrective actions are
regulations, industry codes, and company policies, implemented following all substantiated investigations,
including refraining from any bribery, kickback or such as team member separations, documented warnings
corruption-related activities. and retraining.
The Company has established anti-bribery and anti-
corruption policies and procedures that cover, among
other things, interactions with healthcare providers and
government officials. These policies and procedures are
reinforced by a robust training program as well as periodic 100
%
auditing and monitoring. Zimmer Biomet has a zero
-tolerance policy when it comes to bribery and corruption.
COMPLETION
Zimmer Biomet’s Global Third-Party Compliance team
REMEDIATION
supports and monitors business partners, such as ACTIVITIES
distributors, to help ensure they adhere to the same ethical
standards as our team members. To ensure compliance,
Zimmer Biomet performs anti-corruption due diligence
prior to engaging a third party, and periodically thereafter
In 2020:
during the course of the Company’s relationship with a
• We had 100 percent completion of remediation
third-party, in addition to third-party compliance audits.
activities arising from compliance investigations,
audits and monitoring.
Zimmer Biomet also has a dedicated global compliance
investigations team staffed by experienced anti-corruption
Ethical Marketing
investigators that manages and conducts all compliance
investigations. Zimmer Biomet engages in marketing to provide valuable
information regarding our products and services to
Whistleblower Program healthcare professionals (HCPs), patients and others.
Zimmer Biomet’s ability to deliver on our Mission of
All marketing activities conducted by Zimmer Biomet must
improving lives depends on us being a Trusted Partner. Team
have a commercially reasonable and legitimate business
members and business partners are empowered to speak
purpose, and not involve cash, fees or other forms of
up whenever there’s a concern about a potential or actual
compensation provided directly or indirectly to HCPs or
violation of organizational policies, procedures or internal
public officials. Marketing activities are also expected to
controls, or applicable laws, regulations and industry codes.
be separate from any company-sponsored training or
education program. We do not use marketing to improperly
Concerns can be raised directly to managers, Compliance,
influence purchasing, leasing, recommendation, use,
HR or through the Company’s Compliance Hotline. The
prescription or coverage decisions associated with our
Code strictly prohibits retaliation related to Compliance
products and services.
reporting.
21
Zimmer Biomet’s Statement of
Engagement on Public Policy Issues
Zimmer Biomet operates in a heavily regulated global Specific policies of interest to Zimmer Biomet include the
marketplace and, therefore, believes it is important to following:
be able to express its views on a variety of proposals to • Corporate Tax Policy – Zimmer Biomet supported
policymakers and other stakeholders in a transparent the changes to the U.S. corporate tax code in 2017,
manner. These efforts include monitoring public policy which created a more globally competitive system for
proposals, analyzing these proposals and advocating for U.S. businesses by lowering the corporate tax rate and
those policies that enhance patient and healthcare provider shifting to a territorial system.
access to innovative technologies to treat debilitating joint • Stability in Payment Policies – As innovation in
pain and musculoskeletal conditions. medical technology changes the way that care is
delivered, Zimmer Biomet supports payment and
Zimmer Biomet is committed to participating constructively reimbursement policies that ensure stability and
and responsibly in the public policy process. Government access for patients, providers, innovators and the
policy proposals to regulate the healthcare system may entire healthcare ecosystem.
directly affect the Company’s business and the incentives • Diversity, Equity and Inclusion – Zimmer Biomet
for innovation. There are also important policy proposals supports policies that strengthen a diverse and
that can further the Company’s business interests, including inclusive medical technology workforce and ensure
those of the Company’s shareholders. Zimmer Biomet equitable patient access to innovative devices and
actively seeks to inform the debate on these proposals in therapies.
the United States and in other countries. The Company also • Medical Device User Fee Amendments (MDUFA)
supports policies that advance the interests of patients, – Zimmer Biomet supports a well-resourced and well-
improve public health and promote access to healthcare functioning U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA).
and innovation. The long-standing user fee program has helped FDA
make significant improvements to the regulatory
Zimmer Biomet’s engagement in the political process is approval process for new medical devices. In 2021,
focused on the following areas: Zimmer Biomet and its industry trade group will
• Access to musculoskeletal care begin negotiations with FDA and Congress regarding
• Transparent, timely, and scientifically-based regulatory changes to MDUFA in anticipation of legislation in
decision-making 2022.
• Market-based payment or reimbursement • Support for International Trade Agreements –
• Strong protection of patents and other intellectual Zimmer Biomet supports trade policy initiatives that
property rights seek to improve access to medical devices in overseas
• Open and competitive access to international markets export markets.
• Tax policies that support innovation and global
competitiveness
• Sensible medical malpractice reform
22
How Zimmer Biomet Engages
The primary means by which Zimmer Biomet engages highest ethical standards. Among other things, the Code
in public policy debate is through communication of makes clear that no illegal payments of any kind (monetary
information to government officials, policy makers and or otherwise) are to be offered or made to an individual or
their staffs. Zimmer Biomet’s Government Affairs office entity—including officials or employees of national, state,
in Washington, D.C. is responsible for advocacy activities local or foreign governments or national or foreign political
with the U.S. Congress and the Executive Branch, as well as candidates—at any time or under any circumstances.
advocacy at the state level. The Government Affairs office,
which also has staff outside the United States, reports to the Industry Groups and Trade Associations
Senior Vice President and General Counsel. Globally, the
Zimmer Biomet is a member of several industry and trade
Company currently has eight full-time employees wholly
groups. The Company works with these groups on a variety
dedicated to Government Affairs matters.
of issues of importance to Zimmer Biomet and the medical
device industry. These groups can help the industry reach
To assist with its advocacy and policy analysis work,
consensus on policy issues and be more effective with
Zimmer Biomet occasionally contracts with private firms
issue advocacy. With Zimmer Biomet representatives
specializing in government affairs advocacy. These firms
on the boards and committees of industry groups and
provide the organization with expertise on issues that are
associations, the Company can voice questions or concerns
important to the Company and its shareholders.
it may have about policy or related activities. At times,
the Company may not agree fully with the views of these
In compliance with the U.S. Lobbying Disclosure Act,
associations or their individual member companies; in such
Zimmer Biomet files quarterly reports with the U.S.
instances, Zimmer Biomet reserves the right to remove
Congress describing the Company’s advocacy activities
itself from related association or industry group activities
in Washington, D.C. and the amount of money spent each
when the Company determines it is appropriate to do so.
quarter to support these activities. These reports also
include the cost of maintaining the Government Affairs
Following is a list of U.S. industry and trade groups of which
office in Washington, D.C. and the portion of Zimmer
Zimmer Biomet is a member and for which the Company
Biomet’s trade association dues associated with advocacy
pays at least $25,000/year in membership fees, with the
activities. To view Zimmer Biomet’s quarterly lobbying
percentage of fees attributable to non-tax deductible,
expenditures, click on the above link and search for Zimmer
federal lobbying expenditures noted in italics:
Biomet under registrant.
• Advanced Medical Technology Association
(AdvaMed) – 10%
All Zimmer Biomet employees and agents must abide by the
• Medical Device Competitiveness Coalition
Company’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. This Code
(MDCC) – 100%
covers a wide range of business practices and procedures,
• U.S. Chamber of Commerce – 20-25%
and is designed to deter wrongdoing and promote the
23
Political Contributions
Following the events of January 6, 2021 at the U.S. Capitol
Zimmer Biomet’s policies prohibit contributions of
in Washington, DC, we halted our Z-PAC contributions, but
corporate funds to candidates, political party committees
these contributions have since been partially reinstated.
and political action committees. Contributions by Zimmer
We continue to review the ongoing pause in contributions
Biomet’s Political Action Committee (Z-PAC) – which is
to those who voted against the Presidential election
supported entirely by voluntary contributions made by
certification in Arizona and/or Pennsylvania.
employees and non-employee directors of the Company
– support candidates, parties or committees whose views
on specific issues are consistent with the Company’s
priorities. The Z-PAC is governed by an Advisory Committee
consisting of representatives from across the Company’s
U.S. business units and business functions. The Advisory
Committee reviews Z-PAC activities and establishes policies
and priorities.
The Z-PAC contributes to candidates and political
committees on a bi-partisan basis, and does not make
contributions in connection with U.S. Presidential elections.
Contribution decisions are not made to reflect the personal
political views or interests of senior management. In deciding
whom to support, consideration is given to candidates who
represent the communities Zimmer Biomet serves, those
who serve on relevant committees or in leadership and
those who have shown support for policies and initiatives of
importance to the Company. Z-PAC contribution guidelines
also emphasize the character and integrity of candidates,
including the candidate’s position on issues that may impair
Zimmer Biomet’s corporate reputation or are contrary to its
values, such as the candidate’s positions and record in the
area of diversity, equity and inclusion. Contributions made
by the Z-PAC are, as required by law, reported in filings with
the Federal Election Commission (FEC). The most recent
FEC report is available here.
24
2020 Sustainability Accounting Standards Board Index
We are proud to publish Zimmer Biomet’s first Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Index. This reflects our
continued commitment to our sustainability efforts and increased transparency in our sustainability disclosures.
Topic Code SASB Metric 2020 Reporting
Affordability & Pricing HC-MS-240a.2 Description of how price information for each In the United States, customers will typically
product is disclosed to customers or to their engage with a local sales representative
agents and local office to provide pricing for
products. Larger healthcare systems will issue
Requests for Proposals (RFPs). The pricing is
communicated through the contract process
either via hard copy (local, state or federal
government accounts), email or through
electronic interchanges.
Product Safety HC-MS-250a.1 Number of recalls issued, total units recalled 21 recalls in 2020.
Product Safety HC-MS-250a.3 Number of fatalities related to products as None
reported in the FDA Manufacturer and User
Facility Device Experience
Product Safety HC-MS-250a.4 Number of FDA enforcement actions taken In 2020, Zimmer Biomet did not receive any
in response to violations of current Good warning letters, seizures, or consent decrees.
Manufacturing Practices (cGMP), by type
Ethical Marketing HC-MS-270a.1 Total amount of monetary losses as a result None
of legal proceedings associated with false
marketing claims
Ethical Marketing HC-MS-270a.2 Description of code of ethics governing Please see page 19
promotion of off-label use of products
Product Design & HC-MS-410a.2 Total amount of products accepted for takeback None
Lifecycle Management and reused, recycled, or donated, broken down
by: 1) devices and equipment and 2) supplies
Supply Chain HC-MS-430a.1 Percentage of 1) entity's facilities and 2) tier I 100% of Zimmer Biomet manufacturing
Management suppliers' facilities participating in third-party sites are audited by a third party and are
audit programs for manufacturing and product ISO certified.
quality
50% of Tier 1 suppliers are audited by a third
party.
The highest risk suppliers are audited by a third
party as part of their ISO certification or are
audited by a Zimmer Biomet facility.
Those suppliers not participating in third-party
audit programs have been vetted as the lowest
risk, given the minimal likelihood of severity
to the Zimmer Biomet quality system based
on a failure of the product or service to meet
specifications.
25
Topic Code SASB Metric 2020 Reporting
Supply Chain HC-MS-430a.2 Description of efforts to maintain traceability Zimmer Biomet and all distributors, including all
Management within the distribution chain sales and office staff, are required to implement
identification and traceability controls.
Distribution records must include the
customer's name, address, part number, control
number, date and quantity shipped.
The distribution record is maintained by
Zimmer Biomet from the time of receipt
through storage, handling and distribution
until the product is implanted into a patient,
permanently retired from use or permanently
disposed of.
Supply Chain HC-MS-430a.3 Description of the management of risks Please see page 12
Management associated with the use of critical materials
Business Ethics HC-MS-510a.1 Total amount of monetary losses as a result of None
legal proceedings associated with bribery or
corruption
Business Ethics HC-MS-510a.2 Description of code of ethics governing Please see page 23
interactions with health care professionals
For ESG surveys please contact surveys@zimmerbiomet.com
For ESG inquiries please contact Keri Mattox at keri.mattox@zimmerbiomet.com
or Ezgi Yagci at ezgi.yagci@zimmerbiomet.com
26
©2020 Zimmer Biomet | www.zimmerbiomet.com | 3427.1-GLBL-en-Issue Date 2021-MM-DD
