10 YEAR
ANNIVERSARY
Together we are
making a difference
for a better world
2022 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 2
Our journey
toward a
better world for
animals, people
and the planet.
Contents
Introduction 03 Communities 11 Animals 29 Planet 49 SASB and ESG Index 61
Care and Collaboration Innovation in Animal Health The Drive to Protect
A Letter from our CEO 03 Sustainability Accounting 62
Our Planet
Sustainability Program Governance 12 Securing a Sustainable Future 30 Standards Board (SASB)
Driven to Care 05
Our Carbon Footprint 50
Caring for our Colleagues 14 Innovating for Sustainable Solutions 31 Social Data 78
About this Report 07
Packaging 58
Caring for our Communities 23 Antimicrobial Stewardship 40 Environmental Data 80
About our Company 08
Access to Veterinary Care in 44 Taskforce on Climate-related 83
Emerging Markets Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
Combat Diseases 46
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 3
A LETTER FROM OUR CEO Communities: Care and Collaboration
Caring for the communities where we live and work
Driven by purpose, we are
starts with our colleagues, and we are constantly
working to make Zoetis a place where they can
thrive. Our best-in-class colleague engagement
building a better future for
levels remained high at 88% in 2022, reflecting
a culture of inclusion that has earned Zoetis
people, animals & the planet recognition as a best company in several markets.
Our Executive Team and Board of Directors
are more diverse than ever, as we continue to
ensure that leaders contribute ideas based on
different experiences and are in the best position
At Zoetis, our purpose is to nurture the world
to connect with people across the organization.
and humankind by advancing care for animals.
In fulfilling that purpose, we set an ambitious In 2022, we continued to enrich our
sustainability strategy three years ago. comprehensive range of benefits to accommodate
Since then, we have made meaningful and more colleagues -- from support for families and
measurable progress on that journey in the face self-care to 12-week parental leave (for adoptive A new Foundation grant recipient for 2023 is
of ongoing economic and global challenges, parents too) in the U.S. Last year, about 43% of our the World Food Program USA, which provides
from food insecurity to climate change. U.S. colleagues who used this benefit were fathers. nutrition and other assistance to communities
facing emergencies. The Foundation committed
I’m pleased to report that in 2022, we continued At Zoetis, we believe that learning agility is
$1.2 million in grant funding over two years to
to advance our Driven to Care aspirations, which essential to building resilience and staying
help more than 80,000 livestock farmers in
define our commitments to Communities, Animals, adaptive in times of uncertainty. We’ve advanced
Ethiopia and Kenya gain access to financial and
and the Planet. Through these commitments we our learning culture through expanded manager
veterinary services that can help them keep
are making a positive impact on our world with training, mentoring and sponsorship opportunities;
their animals healthy during times of drought.
our diverse portfolio of medicines, vaccines, advanced digital fluency across our workforce;
diagnostics and technologies for pets and livestock and offered diversity, equity, and inclusion A strong, resilient veterinary profession is also
and considerable progress toward our long- education for all colleagues. More than 60% of essential to creating and sustaining a better
term sustainability goals. None of this would be our Zoetis managers sharpened their leadership future for animals. With increasing support
possible without the dedicated work and passion skills through the Leading@Zoetis curriculum, for veterinary professionals, the Foundation
of our Zoetis colleagues across the globe. which equips them with the tools and training provided funding for one of the largest annual
to coach and lead teams most effectively. veterinary student scholarships in the animal
This report honors our outstanding Zoetis
health industry. In addition, the Foundation is
teams – the colleagues who champion our Caring for customers and communities around
a Founding Sponsor of the It Takes a Village
purpose by contributing to a better future the world in meaningful ways, the Zoetis
Foundation's Vet for a Day program, which teaches
for us all. Following are highlights of our Foundation significantly increased initiatives and
children in under-represented communities
progress in 2022 to advance sustainability for grants in 2022 to advance farmer and veterinary
about opportunities in veterinary medicine.
communities, animals, and the planet we share. education, livelihoods, and well-being.
With less than 2% of U.S. veterinarians from the
Black community, these programs are aimed at
building a more inclusive veterinary profession.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 4
To further our impact, I’m incredibly proud to share During the last year, we mapped specific, In closing, we at Zoetis have learned that
that in 2022, we renewed support for this initiative measurable plans to achieve carbon sustainability has so many dimensions. It’s creating
through additional co-funding with the Bill & neutrality by 2030, such as programs that a sustainable environment and seeing the impact
Melinda Gates Foundation. By expanding our reach drive energy efficiency at our sites and the we can have by improving animal health, lifting
to seven additional countries in Sub-Saharan Africa, introduction of more fuel-efficient hybrid up communities in which we serve, and bringing
we can advance the health and productivity of and electric vehicles for our fleet. prosperity to our customers. Our work on all
livestock even more. We’ve also added aquaculture these fronts has never been more important.
I’m pleased to note that we’ve already met our
to the existing programs supported by this initiative
target to reduce energy intensity in manufacturing Sincerely,
-- which has been widely recognized for its ability
and R&D 5% by 2025 with a 13.5% reduction
to improve the food supply and the livelihoods of
in 2022 – and with considerable progress
countless farmers in the region. It’s inspiring to
towards carbon neutrality and sourcing 100%
note that Fortune named Zoetis to its 2022 Change
renewable electricity by 2030. In fact, one
the World list due to A.L.P.H.A.’s contributions
third of our manufacturing sites are operating
to advancing sustainable veterinary care.
with 100% renewable electricity. And in 2022,
Kristin Peck
As we think about global food security, Highly nearly 90% of our water withdrawals came
CEO, Zoetis
Pathogenic Avian Influenza (HPAI) is another critical from areas of low- to medium-water stress.
issue for our customers and the wider food value
Animals: Innovation in Animal Health The Journey Continues
chain as it threatens a consistent supply of eggs
and poultry meat. Zoetis stands ready to develop
My visit to Uganda last year was an important 2023 marks our 10-Year Anniversary as Zoetis,
a new vaccine against the current strain if that is
reminder of the fragility of our food system and when we launched the largest public company
the route our customers and regulatory authorities
how truly essential a steady supply of protein is singularly focused on animal health. Never did I
want to take. Meanwhile, our field teams continue
for an affordable food supply. For the past five imagine that Zoetis would achieve the success,
to support our customers with biosecurity needs
years, our African Livestock Productivity and market leadership and level of growth we see
to prevent HPAI from reaching their flocks.
Health Advancement (A.L.P.H.A.) initiative has today - or that animal health would be even more
been a significant means of expanding access to valued now as a durable and sustainable market.
Planet: The Drive to Protect Our Planet
veterinary care in the Sub-Saharan region of Africa
Looking ahead, we will further our journey
-- where 20% of livestock are lost to disease. The Climate change is a significant global issue with
to be the most trusted and valued animal
combination of Zoetis' leadership in animal health far-reaching impacts that touch us all. At Zoetis,
health company, shaping the future of animal
and experience in forging broad collaborations in we have committed to reducing greenhouse
care through our innovation, customer
emerging markets has enabled us to accelerate gas emissions in our own operations and
obsession and purpose-driven colleagues.
the advancement of animal health in the region – thoughtfully managing our climate risks --
by providing access to medicines and technology because it matters to the communities we serve,
that helps farmers raise healthier animals, improve our colleagues, our customers and the health
productivity and secure more sustainable revenue. of animals in their care around the world.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 5
Communities
Driven to Care Care and We support and partner with our
colleagues, communities and the
people who care for animals. We
Strategy Collaboration achieve more by working together
toward our common goals.
Our Sustainable
Aspirations Targets Progress Development Goal
Zoetis strives to be the most Our Driven to Care strategy formalizes our
Support our Contribute 2,500 volunteer days (20,000 hours)
sustainable animal health commitment to build a healthier future for all communities annually in the communities we serve
into a framework of sustainability aspirations.
company in the world. Our
These aspirations provide a roadmap for Support veterinary Provide at least $1 million in scholarships
sustainability strategy is built on
how Zoetis can help make an impact and professionals to veterinary students annually, focusing on
our purpose—to nurture the world underrepresented groups where possible
drive achievement of the United Nations (UN)
Provide access to professional programs for veterinarians
and humankind by advancing care Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
in the countries where we have a presence
for animals—and led by dedicated
Expand vet care Annually report on the number of pet owners reached
colleagues who are Driven to Care
access to populations through community programs and in-kind contributions
for our Communities, Animals in need
and the Planet we share. Provide animal care in Annually report on the number of animals cared for
disaster relief through community programs and in-kind contributions
Create a sustainable Integrate sustainability into all strategic planning
governance and resource allocation processes
framework
Establish an effective approach to external
sustainability disclosures
Support our Increase representation of women at the director
colleagues and level and above to 40% by 2025 across Zoetis
cultivate a safe,
Increase representation of people of color at
flexible, diverse and
all levels in the U.S. to 25% by 2025
inclusive workplace
• 5% Black US colleagues by 2025
Launched by the UN in 2015, the 17 SDGs are a • 6% Latinx US colleagues by 2025
Be a top 100 leader for workplace inclusion in key
call for action to make measurable progress to
focus areas (women, people of color, LGBTQ+)
end poverty, ensure prosperity for all people and Commit to diverse slates and interview
panels as we hire for all positions
protect the planet by 2030. This year marks the
midpoint of our collective journey to achieve the
SDGs, and we at Zoetis are proud that our Driven to
Not on track, but mitigation
Care strategy directly supports 11 of the SDGs. KEY Target met On track Not on track
measures are in place
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 6
Animals Planet
Innovate in We use our expertise in animal health Protect our We steward resources responsibly
to solve sustainability challenges and minimize our impact, as we
facing animals and people. deliver products and services that
Animal Health Planet advance the health of animals.
Our Sustainable Our Sustainable
Aspirations Targets Progress Development Goal Aspirations Targets Progress Development Goal
Provide products Innovate to create and drive adoption of key Minimize our Become carbon neutral in our own operations by 2030
and services that sustainable animal health solutions carbon footprint
enable productive
Source 100% renewable electricity by 2030
and sustainable
livestock farms
that preserve Equip our customers with innovative products to Reduce energy intensity in manufacturing
animal welfare support their ambitious environmental, social and and R&D by 5% by 20251
animal welfare goals Retired
in 2022
Rethink business travel and work-from-home policies to
Promote a preventive Promote responsible use of antibiotics through technical
reduce transportation-related emissions by 25% by 20252
approach to animal education, introducing antibiotic alternatives, and
health with positive Rethink our Integrate sustainability considerations
developing diagnostic and digital tools
implications on packaging into all new packaging designs
human health Innovate around antimicrobial resistance to reduce to reduce its
the dependency on antibiotic classes shared with environmental
human health footprint
Grow access to vet Through our A.L.P.H.A. and A.L.P.H.A Plus
care in emerging initiatives with focus in Africa, by 2025 we will: Improve the Stand-up “Location Sustainability” teams in major sites
markets sustainability
• Train 100,000 farmers, vet professionals in our locations
and lab technicians
• Increase women trainees to 50% of trainees 1 Based on 2019 baseline. Energy intensity is gigajoules per $1 million in revenue.
2 Based on 2019 baseline.
• Treat 10 million cows with positive
implications on smallholder livelihoods,
food security and the environment
• Treat 200 million chickens with positive
implications on smallholder livelihoods,
food security and the environment
Combat diseases that Leverage the Zoetis Center for Transboundary
pose the greatest and Emerging Diseases to develop vaccines for
risk to animals
high-impact emerging diseases globally:
and humans
• Invest in R&D on emerging infectious diseases
• Provide our innovative vaccines to relevant markets
via tenders or other go-to-market pathways Not on track, but mitigation
KEY Target met On track Not on track
measures are in place
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 7
About this Report
February 1, 2023 marked our 10th anniversary
as Zoetis, launched in 2013 as the largest public
company singularly focused on animal health.
Our colleagues have led this journey since
the beginning, establishing our Core Beliefs
that guide everything we do and defining our
enduring purpose – to nurture the world and
humankind by advancing animal care. Our
dedicated and talented colleagues continue to
”At Zoetis, our colleagues
make the difference in our success, driving our
truly make the difference
innovation in animal health and our progress
toward achieving our sustainability targets. in driving our progress as
we advance sustainability
This is our third year reporting our progress
toward our Driven to Care strategy. In developing in animal health for a better
our sustainability programs and ESG disclosures,
future for communities,
we considered the disclosure frameworks
animals and our planet.”
and guidance of sustainability standards, such
as the Sustainability Accounting Standards
Board’s (SASB) Health Care – Biotechnology
Jeannette Ferran Astorga
& Pharmaceuticals industry, the Task Force
Executive Vice President, Corporate
on Climate-related Financial Disclosures
Affairs, Communications and Chief
(TCFD) and the United Nations Sustainable
Sustainability Officer and President
Development Goals. In 2022, we also completed
of the Zoetis Foundation
the CDP climate change and water surveys,
which are available on the CDP website.
The discussion and data points in this
report reflect the 2022 calendar year unless
otherwise noted. Select case studies and
programs feature information from 2023,
up to the time of this report publication.
Please see the back cover for important
disclosures regarding this report.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 8
About our Our Purpose
To nurture the world and humankind by
Company
advancing care for animals—inspires how
we are reimagining animal health. We focus
on innovations across the continuum of care
for animals—from prediction and prevention
For over 70 years, Zoetis and our legacy
to detection and treatment of disease. We
companies have supported those who raise and
apply digital technologies and data analytics
care for animals in veterinary clinics and homes
to help integrate the continuum of care and
and on farms and ranches. We strive to be the
create unique solutions for our customers. We
most trusted and valued animal health company,
also continue to develop our highly engaged
shaping the future of animal care through our
colleagues who help us advance sustainability
innovation, customer obsession and purpose-driven
in animal health for a better future.
colleagues, and we care deeply about helping
pets live longer, healthier lives and improving the
health, welfare and productivity of livestock.
Our Vision
A Fortune 500 company, Zoetis generated
revenue of $8.1 billion in 2022 with approximately
To be the most trusted and valued animal
13,800 colleagues. The company’s leading
portfolio and pipeline of medicines, vaccines, health company, shaping the future of animal
diagnostics and technologies make a difference care through our innovation, customer
in over 100 countries. We apply our research obsession and purpose-driven colleagues.
and development (R&D), manufacturing, and
technical expertise to create new and better
animal health advancements that address the
Our Core Beliefs
challenges our customers face every day.
Our name, Zoetis (zō-EH-tis), has its root in
Our Core Beliefs are part of the promise we make
zo, familiar in words such as zoo and zoology
to our customers, investors and partners, and
and derived from zoetic, meaning “pertaining
to each other as members of One Zoetis team.
to life.” It signals our company’s dedication to
supporting the world’s veterinarians, livestock • Our Colleagues Make The Difference
farmers, and pet owners who raise and care for
• Always Do The Right Thing
the animals on which we depend. We believe
• Customer Obsessed
the bond between people and animals is special
• Run It Like You Own It
and makes the world a better place. By working
together to advance care for animals, we are • We Are One Zoetis
building a more sustainable future that benefits our
colleagues, customers, communities and planet.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 9
Zoetis at a Glance1
7
Revenue by Revenue by
Species * Product Category *
8
major product
3%1%
3%
3% 4%
categories—
6% 23%
5%
13,800
parasiticides,
Core species
7% vaccines,
13%
supported by total number
dermatology,
Zoetis—dogs, of colleagues
anti-infectives,
cats and horses
other
(collectively,
pharmaceutical
62%
companion 18% 21%
products,
300 14%
animals) and
medicated feed
cattle, swine,
additives and
17%
poultry, fish, approximate
animal health
Dogs and Catsa 62% Horsesa 3% Parasiticides 23% Medicated Feed
and sheep number of
diagnostics
Cattleb 18% Fishb 3% Vaccines 21% Additives 5%
(collectively, comprehensive Swineb 7% Sheep and Otherb 1% Dermatology 17% Animal Health
Poultryb 6% Anti-Infectives 14% Diagnostics 4%
livestock) product lines
Other Pharmaceuticals Other Non-
15
a Companion Animal 65%
13% Pharmaceuticals 3%
b Livestock 35%
blockbusters
4,200 * R evenue charts by species, product category and market exclude revenues associated with Client Supply Services
29
and Human Health, which represented 1% of total 2022 revenue. with revenues of
approximate
$100M or more as
field force
of year-end 2022
members (sales global
organization manufacturing 1,430 100
$539M
includes sales sites—all
representatives dedicated to $8.1B R&D investment
and veterinary delivering a approximate countries where (expense) in 2022
technical reliable supply of number of R&D our products
representatives) quality products revenue in 2022 colleagues are sold
1 All figures are as of
December 31, 2022.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 10
Honors and
For our COVID-19 For our African Recognized as one of
vaccine for animals, Livestock Productivity the 2023 World’s Most
Recognition named among and Health Ethical Companies®
Fast Company’s Advancement
Most Innovative (A.L.P.H.A.) initiative,
Companies for 2022, named to 2022
ranking eighth in Fortune Change
When a company is Driven to Care, it shows. the Corporate Social the World list
We received recognition for our efforts to Responsibility category
demonstrate care for our communities,
for animals and for the planet.
Named among Best Listed among Named a 2022
Places to Work for Seramount 100 Seramount Best
LGBTQ+ Equality, Best Companies for Company for Dads
with a top score of Working Parents for for the second
100 on the Human the ninth consecutive consecutive year
Rights Campaign’s year in 2022
Read about these and other
Corporate Equality
honors and accolades here
Index (CEI) in 2022
Named a 2022 Named a 2022 Named a Noteworthy
Seramount Best Seramount Best Company and
Company for Company for Top Company for
Multicultural Women Executive Women Board of Directors
by DiversityInc
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 11
Communities
Care and
Collaboration
We support and partner with our
colleagues, communities and the
people who care for animals. We
achieve more by working together
toward our common goals.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 12
ASPIRATION
ESG MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT
Create a sustainable governance framework
In 2020, we conducted an
TARGET 2022 PROGRESS
ESG materiality assessment
to inform our Driven to
Integrate sustainability into our strategic Through our Driven to Care strategy, continued
Care strategy and to help
Sustainability planning and resource allocation processes to embed sustainability goals and aspirations
into our key business functions. Compensation us strategically identify
paid to our Executive Team members under our
the sustainability topics
Program
annual incentive plan continues to be tied to
that have an impact on
shared and individual objectives organized around
our six strategic priorities, including Advance society and our business.
Governance
Sustainability in Animal Health for a Better Future.
We plan to conduct a materiality
Establish an effective approach to Continued to report in line with best practice
external sustainability disclosures sustainability frameworks and to engage with assessment every few years as
stakeholders to advance our program and
part of our ongoing sustainability
disclosures, including submitting the CDP climate
strategy refreshment. Additional
survey for the second year and participating
in the CDP water survey for the first time.
information about the
assessment and the results can
Set up a centralized data management system for
sustainability. High-quality data is key to reporting on be found on page 15 of our 2020
our climate goals. This new data management system
Sustainability Report.
will advance our ability to report climate progress
as well as other data points for sustainability.
The world leader in animal health, Zoetis While the Chief Sustainability Officer guides our
is driven by a singular purpose: to nurture goals and direction, our sustainability priorities
our world and humankind by advancing are embedded throughout the organization
care for animals. Our sustainability and ESG and key business functions. To drive further
practices are important priorities for our accountability, compensation for members of
Board of Directors, CEO and Executive Team, our Executive Team is based on multiple shared
and cascade across our organization. and individual business objectives, including
the management of sustainability initiatives and
Our Executive Vice President, Corporate Affairs,
the company’s strategic priority to advance
Communications and Chief Sustainability
sustainability in animal health for a better future.
Officer, who reports directly to the CEO and is
a member of our Executive Team, helps define
the ESG agenda and provides oversight of
our global sustainability initiatives and goals.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 13
Board of Directors
In early 2022, we changed the name of the
Corporate Governance Committee of the Board
Corporate Governance & Sustainability
of Directors to the Corporate Governance and
Sustainability Committee to reflect its primary
AUDIT HUMAN CORPORATE QUALITY &
responsibility for overseeing strategies, initiatives,
RESOURCES GOVERNANCE INNOVATION Board of Directors:
activities and disclosures regarding ESG and
& SUSTAINABILITY Oversees our sustainability
• Enterprise Risk • DE&I • Natural resources/climate
sustainability, citizenship, and public affairs Management • Public policy / program and strategy, with
• Human capital / • Employee health & safety
matters. The Committee also coordinates the political spending specific oversight responsibility
• Compliance employee engagement
• Animal welfare
assigned to each committee
ESG activities of our other Board committees and • Community engagement
• Data privacy and security • Compensation
• Product safety & quality
/ human rights
reports regularly to the full Board on the progress (incl. cybersecurity)
• DE&I / employee
• Waste & toxicity
of the company’s sustainability initiatives. The Chief • Financial disclosures disclosures • Board structure / / packaging Select sustainability
shareholder rights oversight responsibilities
Sustainability Officer provides updates to the full • Human health impacts
• ESG disclosures
Board at least twice a year and to the Corporate
Governance and Sustainability Committee at each
Committee meeting. As shown in the graphic,
Zoetis Executive Team
each committee of the Board of Directors also
contributes to the oversight of select areas of
CEO
Zoetis’ sustainability program and strategy and
helps inform the Board’s ultimate oversight.
EVP Strategy, EVP CDTO &
EVP & Pres Int'l EVP Global
EVP HR & EVP Corp. EVP EVP US Ops, Commercial, EVP EVP General Pres China,
Operations & Manufacturing
Additional information about our corporate Global Ops Affairs, Comms, R&D Diagnostics Bus. Dev. CFO Counsel Brazil &
Aquaculture and Supply
governance practices, including committee Sustainability & BioDevices Precision AH
charters and other governance documents,
can be found on the Corporate Governance
page of our website, as well as in the ZET liaison Zoetis Executive Team (ZET): Advises
Animal Health Reporting
2022 proxy statement available on the Corporate Community & Strategy Planet on sustainability strategy, drives
Innovation Steering & Disclosures
Sustainability Governance Steering Council accountability and ensures adequate
Investor Relations page of our website. Council Steering Council
Team resourcing and approves decisions
Cross-Functional Working Groups Steering Councils:
Support and Align business and sustainability
guide Working
priorities, drive accountability for
Groups
progress against goals
See the TCFD Index Cross-Functional Working Groups:
Strategy & Global
US International Implementation teams with
Finance Legal HR Commercial R&D Manufacturing
Operations Operations
for more information Development & Supply cross-functional representation
that execute, track and report
on progress for key initiative areas
about how the Board
Functional and/or Market Sustainability Leads & Teams
and Management
Colleague Engagement and Empowerment
oversee climate change
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 14
ASPIRATION
Support our colleagues and cultivate a safe,
flexible, diverse and inclusive workplace
TARGET 2022 PROGRESS
Caring
DEC 2022
Increase representation of women at the director Women at director
37.0% +5%
level and above globally to 40% by 2025 level or above
JUN 2020
for Our 32.0%
DEC 2022
Increase representation of people of color Colleagues (People of Color)
24.6% +3.6%
Colleagues
at all levels in the U.S. to 25% by 2025
JUN 2020
21.0%
Increase representation of Black Colleagues (Black) DEC 2022
4.8% +0.8%
colleagues in the U.S. to 5% by 2025
JUN 2020
4.0%
Increase representation of Latinx Colleagues (Latinx) DEC 2022
6.4% +1.4%
colleagues in the U.S. to 6% by 2025
JUN 2020
5.0%
Be a top 100 leader for workplace inclusion in key • Achieved 100% on the Corporate Equality Index, earning the designation of a Best Place to Work for LGBTQ+
focus areas (women, people of color, LGBTQ+) Equality in 2021 and 2022
• Named one of Seramount’s 100 Best Companies (previously known as Working Mother 100 Best Companies List)
for the ninth year in a row; named a Best Company for Dads for the second time
• Ranked among the top 10 on Seramount’s Top 75 Companies for Executive Women list; recognized as a Pinnacle
Company on Seramount’s Inclusion Index
• Recognized as a Seramount Best Company for Multicultural Women
• Named a DiversityInc Noteworthy Company and Top Company for Boards of Directors
Commit to diverse slates and interview Diverse slates and interview panels are required for open roles
panels as we hire for all positions
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 15
• Paid Parental Leave: This program provides • Family Support: Our childcare concierge
all colleagues with 12 weeks of 100% paid program provides colleagues and their
Our Colleagues Make parental leave (an increase from 6 weeks in families with dedicated support to find, tour
2022) to welcome a child, whether through and enroll with the right type of care for their
birth or adoption. To support colleagues after family, even in areas where daycare centers
the Difference giving birth, we offer additional fully paid, are not common. Zoetis also provides up to
short-term disability benefits. Colleagues who 60 days of back-up care, providing a safety
adopt a child receive 12 weeks of paid parental net for childcare and elder care needs when
leave, and 6 weeks of paid adoption leave. regular care arrangements are unavailable.
• Flexible Return to Work: This program • Self-Care Resources: Our Employee Assistance
Being a global leader in animal health starts with Building from these results, in 2022, the Zoetis
allows new parents the flexibility to Program (EAP) provides colleagues and their
colleagues who share our passion and purpose. Talent, Diversity, Equity and Inclusion team
phase back into their full-time work families with up to 16 sessions with a mental
At Zoetis, our colleagues are inspired to nurture introduced the Leading@Zoetis program to support
schedules following Parental Leave. health coach or counselor. The EAP also
our world every day, and we’re committed career development and provide resources and
provides access to a free library of mental
• Family Benefits: We offer inclusive
to nurturing them, too—providing an award- tools for all global managers. To learn more, see
health and well-being resources, including
fertility benefits, as well as adoption
winning workplace where they can thrive and the Leadership Development Programs section.
guided meditations, how-to videos and
and surrogacy benefits.
advance their potential as we work together
mindfulness strategies for everyday life.
to provide care for animals around the world. • Gender Transition Coverage: We ensure our
88% • Healthcare Advocacy: In 2022, our colleagues
health plan provides full coverage for gender
Our focus on our colleagues has contributed to gained access to UnitedHealthcare’s new
transition related to a diagnosis of gender
our ability to attract and retain a high-performing Premier Advocate4Me member services
dysphoria, based on guidelines provided
workforce, with overall colleague engagement at model, designed to help health plan members
colleague by the World Professional Association
88%, as reported in our October 2022 Colleague navigate and get the most out of their benefits.
for Transgender Health (WPATH).
Engagement Survey. Conducted at least annually, Members can connect one-on-one over the
engagement rate
the survey assesses colleague engagement and • Support for Caregivers and Parents: We phone with an advocate or nurse for assistance
provide parental support benefits for parents
key drivers enabling organizational performance: with making informed decisions about care.
based on engagement surveys conducted in 2022
raising school-age children with learning
Strategy; Leadership; Workplace Climate;
and behavior needs and caregiver support
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion; our Core Beliefs;
Comprehensive Benefits Support our Colleagues to help colleagues with sick or aging loved
and Organization Systems and Processes.
ones. We also offer college coaching
Results from our colleague survey inform not Our compensation and benefits programs are
programs for colleagues and their high
only our business priorities and focus areas designed to support colleagues’ well-being and
school-age students, including test prep and
for the company, but also our development enable them to achieve their full potential, and we
We strive to create a work
tutoring benefits. In 2022, we introduced
of action plans at the functional and people continually evaluate them to ensure they meet our
virtual academic tutoring for colleagues’
manager level, helping to ensure improvement colleagues’ needs. We recognize the diverse needs environment where all
children between the ages of 5 and 18.
opportunities are customized and localized. of our colleagues around the world and have
colleagues feel valued
developed comprehensive programs that vary by
In 2022, we conducted the survey twice, inviting all
country and region to best address their specific
colleagues to participate each time. While results and supported, inspired
needs for physical and mental health, financial
from our October 2022 survey showed continued
wellness, and family and lifestyle resources.
to give their best and
opportunities, we saw positive progress over 2021
and above benchmark scores in 23 out of the 26 In the U.S., these benefits include the
proud to work for Zoetis.
engagement questions. following enhanced offerings:
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 16
Empowered Flexibility Philosophy on Pay Equity Investing in our Colleagues’ Education
In 2022, we continued to prioritize colleagues We are committed to maintaining an inclusive From reimbursing tuition for continuing education
feeling safe, supported and balanced. This includes environment where every colleague can thrive. to assisting with repayment of existing student
empowering flexibility, where possible—enabling For years, Zoetis has been focused on ensuring loans, every investment in our colleagues’
remote work while also harnessing the value that our pay practices and processes include education is an investment in our future. Through
of in-person collaboration and connection. Our safeguards to ensure that salaries established the Zoetis U.S. Tuition Reimbursement Program,
senior leaders help define flexible working models when colleagues are hired, promoted or awarded we help colleagues empower themselves to further
within their organizations to ensure we both meet annual salary increases consider relevant their education, develop individual potential, and
business needs and safeguard colleagues’ well- factors such as experience, qualifications, improve their levels of professional and technical
”I am so very happy to
being and work-life balance. Throughout 2022, performance and applicable market data to achievement. The program provides annual tuition
see the progression in
many office-based teams combined virtual and seek pay equity across our colleagues. reimbursement up to $15,000 for eligible full-time
benefits that Zoetis offers in-office work. Moving forward, we will continue colleagues and up to $10,000 for eligible part-time
We periodically conduct pay equity analyses
to focus on nurturing our culture and building colleagues. Over the last three years, we have had
and am so proud to be a
and address any issues that may be found.
community through both intentional in-person consistent participation in this program. In 2022
colleague here. Our benefits Our most recent analysis, conducted by
collaboration and virtual teaming opportunities. alone, Zoetis provided tuition reimbursement to
an external third-party in 2022, did not
demonstrate advocacy 236 colleagues, of whom approximately 52% were
To further support well-being and work- identify indicators of systemic discrimination
across the full spectrum of women and roughly 20% were colleagues of color.
life balance, we also enhanced our vacation in our compensation program.
diversity that our colleagues
offerings. All colleagues are now eligible In 2022, 792 of our Zoetis colleagues accessed
We have a pay-for-performance culture, and
represent!” for a minimum of four weeks of vacation; all our Student Loan Repayment benefits, a
we measure performance against objectives
colleagues with at least 15 years of service are 24% increase in participation from 2021. This
established annually at the company, organization
eligible for five weeks of vacation. Colleagues benefit provides up to $150 per month to
and individual level. Individual objectives focus on
Dr. Daniel Edge with 30 or more years of service will continue help U.S. colleagues repay their own student
two to three critical priorities plus day-to-day job
Director, Medical Affairs, U.S. Petcare to be eligible for six weeks of vacation. loans. In 2022, 57% of participants were
responsibilities. Managers and colleagues meet
women and 13% were colleagues of color.
annually to discuss performance against objectives.
We will continue to
review our practices and
analyze employee pay
to ensure that we are
paying our colleagues
fairly.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 17
Empowering Colleagues to Excel Colleagues can also access our LinkedIn Leadership Development
Learning platform, which offers more than
At Zoetis, we nurture and develop the talent We support our colleagues’ growth and
16,000 online, on-demand courses taught by
we have to meet our organizational needs. fulfillment through a series of leadership
real-world professionals. In 2022, our first year
As we continue to innovate and evolve the development programs. The President’s
offering LinkedIn Learning opportunities, more
priorities for our business, helping our colleagues Leadership Development Program (PLDP)
than 2,300 Zoetis colleagues participated in
develop and grow remains a strategic priority. develops high-potential colleagues in our U.S.
online courses, completing more than 5,400
Our goal is to enable each colleague to build operations. The year-long program enables
hours of learning with focus in areas such as
leadership capabilities and drive organizational colleagues to work on real, business-critical
leadership, communication and productivity.
results. We offer opportunities for growth at all projects outside their job scope and receive
levels of the company through programmatic senior leadership mentorship. By the end of the
development, annual talent reviews, short- program, participants emerge with increased
term assignments and coaching. leadership confidence and business acumen.
A Tailored Approach to Development Our Emerging Senior Leaders initiative strengthens
current and future leader competencies to prepare
Zoetis aims to set colleagues up for success with
a strong and diverse leadership bench. The year-
Core Competencies, a set of skills and behaviors
long, international-only program focuses on skill-
we defined within each level of the organization.
based development initiatives for high potential
The Core Competencies give colleagues a
senior colleagues in international markets.
practical tool to evaluate and develop a variety
of skills and behaviors that result in more effective
In 2022, Zoetis expanded investments in
career planning. Additionally, a 360-degree
leadership development initiatives to upskill
feedback tool offers colleagues feedback and
all global people leaders with skills and tools
tools to identify development opportunities.
consistent with Zoetis People Leader Core
Competency behaviors and in alignment with
Through Zoetis’ Your Development Matters,
our business priorities. The curriculum, Leading@
every colleague has the opportunity to leverage
Zoetis, provides leaders with tools to effectively
trainings, tools and self-assessments to define
assess, coach and lead their teams; supplemental
their career aspirations and create individual
well-being and mentoring learnings are also
development plans (IDPs)—pathways to achieve
provided. The first component of this series, People
their goals with the support of their managers.
Leaders Essentials, will expand in 2023 with a
Your Development Matters aggregates access to
focus on next-generation talent and additional
our learning and development offerings, including
In 2022, we launched resources to help support colleague IDPs.
our Learning Management System’s DEI trainings
Leading@Zoetis,
and our Leading@Zoetis live-facilitated courses and
With the introduction of Leading@Zoetis in the
eLearnings. In 2022, 99% of our global workforce expanding our
fourth quarter of 2022, 62% of our managers
completed development and compliance trainings.
investment and participated in live virtual training, attending
at least one session of Why Managers Matter.
commitment to
Managers also attended supplemental manager
developing our
development workshops, including How to Give
people leaders. Feedback and How to Build Action Plans.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 18
Developing Diverse Talent
Zoetis Mentoring Zone
Zoetis’ tailored approach to colleague
development is aligned with our Diversity, Equity
and Inclusion aspirations, and includes specialized Launched in late 2022, our new Zoetis ”Zoetis’ mentoring program was really
development programs for our colleagues from Mentoring program is designed to foster
helpful. We chose topics that were
underrepresented groups. Since 2020, Zoetis a sense of community around mentoring to
important to us and ranged from
has participated in the McKinsey Connected drive engagement, fuel learning and develop
Leaders Academy to offer leadership development career aspirations. We leverage a digital big subjects like work-life balance to
programs that focus on the unique skills and platform to match mentees and mentors based
very practical discussions on being
challenges of Black, Latinx and Asian leaders. The on profile attributes and matching criteria—
more effective communicators. We were able to
programs also provide networking opportunities configured specifically to our Zoetis Core
across organizations as well as sponsorship Competencies, including career interests, discuss ideas, learn from each other’s experiences,
from senior management. In 2022, more than 30 development goals and skills gaps. challenge our thinking, and apply the takeaways
colleagues participated in development programs
All colleagues are given equal opportunity to our professional and personal lives. It was also
focused on strengthening core leadership and
to participate in Zoetis’s Mentoring Zone. To a great way of learning more about areas of the
management capabilities. In total, we have had
encourage diverse and inclusive participation,
115 participants over the last three years. business and being connected with colleagues who
Zoetis is piloting targeted programs for our
I do not normally interact with.”
We also provide opportunities for diverse Colleague Resource Groups (CRGs), beginning
colleagues and members of our CRGs to with a partnership with the Women Achieving
Deirdre Bradstock
participate in continuous development Vision, Excellence and Success (WAVES) CRG.
Director, Indirect Procurement
opportunities. For example, each year, Zoetis This targeted program was developed to help
sponsors the Simmons Leadership Conference women network with other women, receive
and selects approximately 25 women to mentorship from a group environment and
represent Zoetis at the conference. develop skills aligned with the Zoetis Core
Competencies, including management and
leadership skills, where applicable. As the
Mentoring Zone continues to grow, we plan to
explore ways to leverage our CRGs to increase
diverse participation in our mentorship program.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 19
DE&I Aspirations for 2025
Advancing Diversity,
Increase representation of women director Increase representation of Black
level and above globally from 32% to 40% colleagues in the U.S. from 4% to 5%
32% 40% 4% 5%
Equity and Inclusion
Increase overall representation among Increase representation of Latinx
We’re striving to create a diverse, equitable Career: We are committed to innovative people of color in the U.S. from 21% to 25% colleagues in the U.S. from 5% to 6%
and inclusive work environment in which every talent processes that maximize the 21% 25% 5% 6%
colleague feels valued, cared for and supported potential of our colleagues.
throughout their Zoetis career journey. Our
Community: We are committed to
commitment to advancing our Diversity, Equity
advancing diversity, equity and inclusion
and Inclusion (DE&I) strategy across the company Partnering for Change
in our business practices and the
begins with our Board of Directors and leadership 40%
We believe we can make a greater impact to
communities in which we live and work.
team, who represent a spectrum of experiences
advance diversity, equity and inclusion if we
of our
and perspectives. With their passion and support
After assessing the composition of our current work collaboratively. Our colleagues, leaders,
for accelerating DE&I, Zoetis has taken concrete
workforce, we developed DE&I aspirations Board of Directors and Zoetis as a company Executive Team members
steps to attract more diverse candidates, foster
to increase diverse representation within our are active members in national partnerships
a more inclusive environment through new are of diverse racial
company and to make Zoetis and our industry that work to expand and diversify the talent
partnerships with diverse organizations, develop
more inclusive. We are proud of the progress we pool for our company and industry. or ethnic background,
our own Colleague Resource Groups (CRGs), and
made toward our DE&I aspirations in 2022 and
increase training and education on DE&I topics. Our CEO serves on the Board of Catalyst, a including Asian, Black,
will continue to work toward fully achieving our
global nonprofit organization that helps leading
aspirations by the end of 2025. In concert with
Our DE&I Strategy and Aspirations
Hispanic/Latinx1
companies build workplaces that work for
our overall talent strategy, we believe we will reach
To help organize our DE&I efforts and balance women and underrepresented groups.
our aspirations in line with our commitment to
both internal and external focus, our Diversity,
attract and retain the best and brightest talent.
Through our commitment to the CEO Action
Equity and Inclusion strategy has four pillars: 60%
for Diversity and Inclusion, Zoetis and our
In 2022, we increased our overall headcount
Culture: We are committed to maintaining by 1,600 colleagues. Through this expansion, CEO work with other CEOs to share best
an inclusive environment where every practices and exchange ideas and learnings
we have been able to further diversify our
of our Executive Team
colleague can thrive. DE&I is embedded in to build more inclusive workplaces.
workforce, allowing us to exceed our target for
our purpose and Core Beliefs and is central
Latinx colleagues in the U.S. and continue to make members are women,
to our employer value proposition.
progress towards all other DE&I aspirations.
including our CEO
Colleagues: We are committed to a diverse global For a more detailed report of our U.S. colleague
workforce, and we seek to ensure diversity and
demographics, see our 2022 EEO-1 report.
equity of opportunity are part of our internal 1 Statistics for Executive Team are as of April 1, 2023 to reflect
a leadership change that occurred after December 31, 2022
and external pipeline management strategies.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 20
Zoetis partners with national organizations focused Developing a DE&I Mindset Our Colleagues 2022
on connecting underrepresented students and Building a Diverse
We believe DE&I training and education Global Workforce: 13,800 (6,900 based outside
professionals with career opportunities, such as
are critical in establishing and maintaining a the U.S., 6,900 based inside the U.S.)1
Board of Directors
INROADS and Minorities in Agriculture, Natural
supportive, inclusive work environment. All Zoetis
Resources and Related Sciences (MANRRS). In RACE/ETHNICITY –
colleagues receive DE&I training on inclusion and 2022 2021 2020
2022, Zoetis was proud to employ nine, or 10%, U.S. WORKFORCE Diverse boards don’t just happen—they’re
unconscious bias, as well as valuing differences,
of summer interns as a result of these relationships. built through a continuous commitment
avoiding exclusion, and spotting and avoiding White 75.4% 76.2% 78.7%
to identifying and attracting people with
We nurture long-standing partnerships microaggressions. Our training offerings for Black 4.8% 4.6% 4.2%
the unique combination of background,
people managers includes modules on inclusive
with Colleges of Veterinary Medicine and Asian 10.7% 10.5% 9.4%
experience and expertise to be effective
leadership, narrative storytelling, allyship and
Historically Black Colleges and Universities to
Hispanic/Latinx 6.4% 5.9% 5.2% board members. To support Zoetis’ increasing
courageous conversations. In 2022, we launched
support leadership and diversity among future
focus on pet owners and direct-to-consumer
our Cultural Explorer training in eight languages Other 2.7% 2.8% 2.5%
veterinarians.
marketing programs globally, our Board’s
to encourage respectful curiosity and open
GENDER – GLOBAL Corporate Governance and Sustainability
We partner closely with the Zoetis Foundation to conversation about differences to deepen mutual 2022 2021 2020
WORKFORCE Committee conducted a search in 2022 for a
support the Foundation’s core value to promote understanding and value for our colleagues’
diversity, equity and inclusion across communities. unique contributions to the workplace. Male 53% 54% 55% director who could provide valuable marketing,
advertising and consumer insight experience.
More information on the Zoetis Foundation can be Female 47% 46% 45%
found on page 23.
The Committee found that experience in
GENDER – GLOBAL
2022 2021 2020 Vanessa Broadhurst, who currently serves as
Zoetis is proud to support organizations that MANAGEMENT2
Executive Vice President, Global Corporate
advance DE&I in the veterinary industry, such as
Male 63% 65% 66%
Affairs at Johnson & Johnson. Among her
Pride Veterinary Medical Community (PrideVMC),
Female 37% 35% 34% many other roles and recognitions, Broadhurst
an association for veterinary professionals who are
was named among Savoy magazine’s
part of the LGBTQ+ community. In 2022, Zoetis
1 Workforce numbers are approximate.
2022 Most Influential Black Executives in
signed on to PrideVMC’s Gender Identity Bill of
2 Management levels defined as Director Level and above.
Corporate America and is a member of
Rights (GIBOR), a document that states the rights
the Executive Leadership Council (ELC), an
of transgender, non-binary, and gender non-
independent nonprofit organization working
conforming persons, and provides guidance on
to open channels of opportunity for the
how workplaces can support their employees by
development of Black executives to positively
identifying and eliminating discriminatory practices.
impact businesses and communities.
With the addition of Broadhurst, the
Zoetis Board of Directors’ 12 members
now include five directors who are
women and four directors from racially
and ethnically diverse backgrounds.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 21
Colleague Resource Groups
Our CRGs spread awareness, foster
inclusivity and make a positive impact
BELIEVERS
on our business and communities by
ART
bringing together colleagues with shared Black Employees Leading in Inclusion, Equity,
experiences, as well as their allies Asians Rising Together Vision, Education, Recruitment and Strategy
ALIVE50+
and colleagues who want to learn.
ART fosters networking, professional BELIEVERS seeks to ensure all colleagues
Age-less Inspirations Valued & Experienced
development, community outreach and feel included and are treated fairly and
ALIVE50+ is a community for colleagues social activities that celebrate each provides educational and mentorship
1,236 over the age of 50, focused on career of the unique Asian, South Asian and programs to help develop and inspire
development and social activities at Zoetis. Pacific Island communities at Zoetis. growth for all individuals and Zoetis.
global active
members across
all CRGs
DNA
LaZos
The Differently-abled
PAW
Neurodiversity Alliance Latinx at Zoetis
Proud and Welcome
DNA’s mission is to advance awareness and LaZos promotes cultural diversity and
inclusion for individuals who are differently- fosters personal and professional PAW promotes awareness and
abled and/or have neurological differences, development among Hispanic and Latinx knowledge about gender identity
as well as their caretakers and allies. colleagues across the organization. and other LGBTQ+ issues.
ZECC
WAVES
Zoetis Early Career Champions
Women Achieving Vision,
ZECC strives to provide access to a
Excellence and Success
diverse, global cross-functional network
WAVES is a community that is building a of Zoetis colleagues to help nurture our
longer table to include colleagues of all new colleagues’ experience through
genders who share the common purpose education, leadership, mentorship
of elevating women for leadership. and networking opportunities.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 22
Building on our EHS program, we also Our commitment to creating safe work
incorporated OSHA’s VPP performance-based environments extends to all who work at our
Upholding a Culture of criteria into our internal health and safety facilities. Contractor safety is an important aspect
management evaluation program, Zoetis H&S of our site safety programs. Before they begin
Star program, extending the principles of work, contractors are screened to ensure they
Health and Safety the OSHA VPP to our international sites. have the relevant qualifications and licenses
and have been trained on our contractor
We self-certified our first Zoetis Star site in
safety procedures and any specific hazards
Campinas, Brazil in 2020 and have since
present at our sites. As we move forward in
recognized our Catania, Italy and Suzhou
continuous improvement, we are implementing
MFA, China as Zoetis Star sites as well. Our
an automated onboarding tool for contractors.
Building a best-in-class safety culture for our Zoetis In the U.S., Zoetis participates in the Occupational
Catania, Italy site has also received an ISO
colleagues starts with our Global Environment, Safety and Health Administration (OSHA)’s
45001:2018 Occupational Health and Safety
Health & Safety (EHS) Policy Standards that help Voluntary Protection Programs (VPP), an initiative
Management Systems certification.
identify risks and correct issues before injuries that engages our colleagues in decisions
occur and define EHS performance requirements, about their own safety. To participate in VPP,
procedures and practices for each site. We strive applicants undergo rigorous on-site evaluation
Health and Safety Performance
to ensure our colleagues’ safety by providing against the program’s performance-based
health and safety training programs, leadership criteria for a managed safety and health system.
METRIC1 2022 2021 2020
process confirmation and injury prevention Three of our manufacturing sites (Charles City,
programs, supported by corporate audits and Iowa; Lincoln, Neb. and White Hall, Ill.) and one Total Injury Rate (TIR)2 0.37 0.50 0.46
daily, weekly and monthly floor-level inspections. logistics center (Lee’s Summit, Mo.) received VPP
Lost Time Injury Rate (LTIR)2 0.20 0.26 0.20
When injuries do occur, our procedures emphasize Star status, VPP’s highest level of recognition,
the need to investigate the cause, implement reserved for employers and employees Fatality Rate 0 0 0
action plans and mitigate potential recurrence. who demonstrate exemplary achievement U.S. OSHA Voluntary OSHA VPP Star: 3 U.S. OSHA VPP Star: 3 U.S. OSHA VPP Star: 3 U.S.
in preventing and controlling occupational Protection Program manufacturing sites manufacturing sites manufacturing sites
In our manufacturing and logistics sites around
safety and health hazards in the development, (VPP) Star and Zoetis and 1 logistics center and 1 logistics center and 1 logistics center
the world, we foster an open environment that H&S Star Sites3
implementation, and continuous improvement
Zoetis H&S Zoetis H&S Zoetis H&S Star: 1 global
promotes a culture of mindfulness, empowering
of their safety and health management system.
Star: 3 global Star: 2 global manufacturing sites
individuals to play an active role in maintaining
manufacturing sites manufacturing sites
a safe workplace. Our colleagues are trained to
identify risky behavior in themselves and others,
1 These metrics cover worldwide operations.
and when they observe an unsafe behavior, they
2 U.S. average for our industry in 2020 were 1.6 for TIR and 0.7 for LTIR. In 2021, U.S. average were 1.6 for TIR and 0.7 for
talk about it and help keep one another safe.
LTIR. 2022 industry averages were not available at the time of publication.
3 In 2022, we had 39 manufacturing and logistics sites (22 locations in the U.S. and 17 global), 5 primary R&D sites (2
location in the U.S. and 3 global), and 4 global sites supporting other business units. In 2021, we had 41 manufacturing and
The proof is in the performance. Our strong safety logistics sites (23 locations in the U.S. and 18 global), 5 primary R&D sites (2 location in the U.S. and 3 global), and 4 global
sites supporting other business units. In 2020, we had 40 manufacturing and logistics sites (22 locations in the U.S. and 18
global), 4 primary R&D sites (1 location in the U.S. and 3 global), and 4 global sites supporting other business units.
culture has enabled us to achieve total injury rates
(TIR) and lost time injury rates (LTIR) consistently
lower than the industry average.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 23
How We Give Back Engaging Our Colleagues in Community Giving
Zoetis Foundation Key
Our colleagues and customers who raise and In 2022, the Zoetis Foundation continued to
care for animals provide invaluable services to advance opportunities for veterinarians and
Impact Areas
communities around the world. Increasingly, farmers around the world. The Zoetis Foundation
however, their work to support the health and also provided opportunities for our colleagues to
Education
productivity of the animals in their care faces give back to causes that matter to them. Through
immeasurable challenges. Livestock farmers the Colleague Resource Group (CRG) Philanthropy The Zoetis Foundation funds grants for
Caring
and veterinary professionals in our communities Grants program, Zoetis CRGs are invited to partners who provide scholarships, debt
fight threats to the health of people, animals propose grantee suggestions for possible relief, and other initiatives to drive a more
for Our and the environment they share. At Zoetis, funding by the Zoetis Foundation. In 2022, all inclusive veterinary community and broader
our corporate community efforts focus on eight Zoetis CRGs submitted recommended access to veterinary and technician training.
initiatives to expand communities’ access to organizations they felt supported their mission
Communities
animal care, provide relief for communities in and were aligned with the Foundation’s values Well-being
need, and support both the work and wellness to strengthen diversity, equity and inclusion.
The Zoetis Foundation’s focus on mental
of veterinarians and farmers everywhere. Among the 2022 grant recipients were the
health emphasizes the importance of well-
Asian American Legal Defense and Education
being for veterinary healthcare teams.
Zoetis Foundation
Fund, nominated by the Asians Rising Together
The Zoetis Foundation builds on Zoetis’ purpose (ART) CRG, and Instituto del Progreso Latino, Livelihoods
through grants to support the world’s veterinarians nominated by the Latinx CRG LaZos.
The Zoetis Foundation funds capacity-
and farmers. Guided by a board of directors
building initiatives and business planning
Read more about our CRG
and a colleague-driven Philanthropy Working
programs that help veterinary practices and
Philanthropy Grants Program
Group, the Foundation prioritizes initiatives
farmers develop sustainable businesses,
and the 2022 recipients
that advance diversity, equity and inclusion—
protect family legacy and thrive in an
enabling thriving and inclusive professions for
increasingly dynamic industry.
veterinarians, veterinary technicians and farmers.
The Zoetis Foundation is committed to its goal of Learn more about the impact
$35 million in grants distributed by the end of 2025 areas of the Zoetis Foundation
to support the Foundation’s three grant-making
priorities: Education, Well-being and Livelihoods.
$7.4 $5.7 25
million million
invested in communities distributed through initiatives impacting 20
through Zoetis Inc. Zoetis Foundation countries supported by
corporate giving in 2022 grants in 2022 Zoetis Foundation grants
ydutS
esaC
Case
Study
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 24
It Takes a Village Supporting Ukraine
Through children’s programs and mentorships When Russia invaded Ukraine in February 2022, global veterinary community, our team helped
designed to provide early exposure to future we committed to provide both immediate and provide care and vaccination for pets arriving
career paths, the It Takes a Village Foundation longer-term support for our Zoetis colleagues, at borders with their owners and for stray dogs
plants seeds of hope and economic growth customers and communities in Ukraine. separated from their families by the war.
in regions across the country. The Vet for a James White pictured with
Our Zoetis teams quickly mobilized on Beyond the border, we supplied donations
Day program gives kids ages 12 to 15 from It Takes a Village founder,
communities that are underrepresented in Dr. Vernard Hodges the ground in Eastern Europe to provide of much-needed vaccines, parasiticides and
evacuation support to our colleagues and other medicines for pets from Ukraine receiving
the veterinary profession an immersive look "I’m so proud to see the
their families—assisting with relocation, care in veterinary clinics across Europe.
at careers in veterinary medicine. The Zoetis
Zoetis Foundation help
transportation and other urgent needs. Our
Foundation is the Founding Sponsor of the
Vet for a Day scale into a Zoetis colleagues from Ukraine’s bordering The Zoetis Foundation provided support for
Vet for a Day program and with the support of
humanitarian and relief efforts in Ukraine as well,
grant funding from the Zoetis Foundation, the nationwide program, building countries also received paid volunteer
making a $150,000 grant to the Red Cross and
time off to assist in humanitarian efforts.
Middle Georgia-based nonprofit expanded
a more inclusive veterinary
matching over $96,000 in contributions Zoetis
its reach into six additional cities in 2022,
community. It was an honor Caring for Ukraine’s pets and food-producing colleagues made to the Foundation’s Red Cross
empowering children in Baton Rouge,
animals became a vital part of those microsite. The Foundation also made a $100,000
and a pleasure to support
Houston, Las Vegas, Miami, Philadelphia
humanitarian efforts. In 2022, we donated over donation to Veterinarians Without Borders—an
and St. Louis to see themselves working this program by volunteering
$600,000 in Zoetis medicines to livestock international organization working with local
in the animal health industry someday.
with fellow BELIEVERS CRG producers in Ukraine, critical for supporting nonprofit and animal shelter partners in Ukraine
animal health and local food production. We and surrounding areas. Their relief efforts
Zoetis colleagues also volunteer their time members at multiple events
also donated Zoetis products to support the included supporting veterinary clinics, providing
to inspire Vet for a Day participants to see
across the country."
health and wellness of companion animals. emergency animal care, food and medicine
the opportunities available in a career in
Approximately 9,000 dogs have been treated purchases and delivery, assisting with daily
veterinary medicine. The program has received
James White
in Ukraine through Zoetis product contributions. shelter operations and refugee pet vaccination.
meaningful support from the BELIEVERS CRG,
Account Manager, U.S.
This includes service dogs who are helping
whose members have given presentations
Read more about It Takes to locate and defuse mines, search for
and helped support the execution of Vet
a Village Foundation and victims under rubble, and therapy-dogs in the
for a Day events throughout the year.
Vet for a Day program hospitals. Working in collaboration with the
Case
Study
ASPIRATION
Celebrating Pride in
Support our communities
New Jersey
TARGET 2022 PROGRESS
Contribute 2,500 volunteer days (20,000 9,165 hours of volunteer time contributed by Colleagues from our Proud And Welcome
hours) annually in the communities we serve our colleagues, 46% of our stated goal. While
(PAW) CRG volunteered at North Jersey
we recognize we have a way to go to achieve
Pride, a Pride Month celebration attended
our goal, the gradual return to in-person events
by thousands of LGBTQ+ community
in 2022 enabled our colleagues to begin to do
members and straight allies. The
more in their communities, with more than 3,000
event was a meaningful opportunity to
additional hours logged in 2022 over 2021.
We expect to see volunteer hours continue to stand together as #OneZoetis with our
increase as more colleagues take advantage community to demonstrate inclusion,
of our U.S. Dollars for Doers program. celebrate diversity and promote equity.
At Zoetis, our colleagues are committed to U.S. Dollars for Doers: Our Dollars for Doers
making a positive impact—not only for animals program allows eligible colleagues to receive
and those who care for them, but also for our Zoetis Foundation matching funds of $10 for every
communities. Zoetis provides paid time off for hour volunteered, which can be donated to eligible
colleagues to volunteer their time, share their nonprofit organizations of the colleague’s choice.
expertise and participate in other activities
U.S. Matching Gifts: By matching
to help nonprofit organizations and those in
colleague donations, the Zoetis Foundation
need. Through the Zoetis Foundation, we
encourages colleagues to donate to their “Pride in 2022 was very
also support a U.S. Matching Gifts program
favorite nonprofit organizations.
special for me as I was able and a U.S. Dollars for Doers program.
For both the U.S. Dollars for Doers and to attend different events
Volunteer Time Off: Zoetis supports giving back to
U.S. Matching Gifts program, the Zoetis
alongside my colleagues.
communities with our Volunteer Day Policy, which
Foundation will match colleague donations
allows colleagues one or more days of paid time I was especially excited
up to $1,000 per colleague per year.
off per calendar year to volunteer for a charitable
for North Jersey Pride as I
organization of their choice in most markets.
got to meet and volunteer
with PAW members and
colleagues in person while
sharing Zoetis’ support for
the LGBTQ+ community.”
Yassin Tajafrat,
Sr. Associate, Supply Chain
seidutS
esaC
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 25
Walking Dogs in
Dublin
Zoetis colleagues in Dublin volunteered their
time to work with dogs at a Dublin Society
for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (DSPCA)
event. Dogs awaiting adoption were treated
to quality time away from the DSPCA shelter
and plenty of affection as they accompanied
our colleagues on a nature walk.
Supporting Girls
Sports in Iowa
When a Zoetis colleague’s daughter joined
an Iowa community’s first-ever wrestling
program for girls, the team lacked funds to
secure the safety equipment they needed
to prepare for their first season. Thanks
to the Zoetis Matching Gifts program, our
colleague was able to double the amount
of his donation to the program and grow
positive impact within the community.
Repairing a Camp in
Michigan
Colleagues brought their local community’s
camp new life at the Kalamazoo, Mich. site
Volunteer Day. In one day, a team of 55
colleagues collectively volunteered 344 hours
of service—just under nine weeks of work—and
generated $3,440 Dollars for Doers. Volunteers
made memories at Pretty Lake Vacation Camp
while restoring a deck, fences and landscaping.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 26
Zoetis is committed to investing in professional
ASPIRATION
programs around the world. In the U.S., Zoetis
Support veterinary professionals
partnered with the American Animal Hospital
Association (AAHA) to continue to execute
TARGET 2022 PROGRESS
the Beyond Medicine Workshop, providing
veterinarians with hands-on skills for non-medical
Provide at least $1 million in scholarships to The Zoetis Foundation provided grants of $2.5
parts of their job, such as communicating with
veterinary students annually, focusing on million, and Zoetis provided approximately an
clients, overcoming professional challenges and
underrepresented groups where possible additional $160,000 in corporate contributions
caring for their own well-being. In Thailand, Zoetis
for scholarships to support more than 500
funded training for veterinarians across a number
students. In the U.S., 48% of students supported
by the Zoetis Foundation/Association of American of skill areas including biosecurity, antibiotic
Veterinary Medical Colleges (AAVMC) Veterinary use, bacterial diseases and data analysis. In the
Student Scholarship Program are members of Czech Republic, Zoetis supported dermatology
traditionally marginalized or underrepresented
and osteoarthritis lectures for veterinarians.
communities and 21% identify as LGBTQ+.
Read more about the
Provide access to professional programs Zoetis continued to invest in professional programs
scholarship programs funded
for veterinarians in the markets in 100% of our markets, through Zoetis-led programs
by the Zoetis Foundation
where we have a presence and in partnerships with external organizations.
The Zoetis Foundation proudly contributed Recognizing that vet technicians are critical for
$2.5 million to scholarship programs in 2022, animal health, the Foundation also provided
and Zoetis provided approximately $160,000 a grant to the American Veterinary Medical Project WAG
in additional funding in corporate contributions. Foundation (AVMF) through the Zoetis
(Wellbeing and
Scholarships supported through the Zoetis Foundation/AVMF Veterinary Technician Student
Foundation include the AAVMC Veterinary Scholarship Program. These scholarships help
Growth)
Student Scholarship Program, which provides offset veterinary technician training expenses.
financial scholarships to second- and third-
The Zoetis Foundation provided a scholarship In 2022, Zoetis launched Project WAG to
year veterinary students to address the issue
grant to the Wildlife Conservation Society to create a positive impact on the lives of
of student debt, while also working to foster
fund their Veterinary Residency in Zoological veterinary professionals and the future of
diversity in the veterinary profession. Zoetis
Medicine and Surgery. Through grants to the veterinary medicine. This initiative strives
and our legacy companies provided funding to
American Association of Swine Veterinarians to go beyond awareness of well-being
the AAVMC’s scholarship program from 2010
Foundation (AASVF) and American Association challenges in the veterinary profession
to 2020, supporting 3,630 scholarships.
of Equine Practitioners (AAEP) Foundation to provide easy access to resources
The Zoetis Foundation’s commitment to for the Horse, the Foundation also provided and tools designed for self-care.
this program from 2021 to 2022 has helped scholarships to students committed to working
reduce the burden of student debt for in the swine and equine practice areas.
Read more about Project WAG
veterinary students. In the two-year period,
and access resources
the Foundation supported more than 800
scholarships by providing $3.2 million in grants.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 27
ASPIRATION ASPIRATION
Expand veterinary care access to populations in need Provide animal care in disaster relief
TARGET 2022 PROGRESS TARGET 2022 PROGRESS
Annually report on the number of pet Zoetis provided approximately $2.2 million in Annually report on the number of Zoetis provided approximately $1.7 million in
owners reached through community monetary and in-kind contributions to support animals cared for through community monetary and in-kind product contributions to care
programs and in-kind contributions approximately 186,000 pet owners in need. programs and in-kind contributions for over 560,000 animals impacted by disasters.
In 2022, we provided approximately $2.2 In 2022, Zoetis provided approximately $1.7
million in monetary and in-kind contributions million in monetary and product contributions
to support pet owners throughout the world. In to help more than 560,000 animals in need.
the U.S., Zoetis held a heartworm prevention
We partner with local organizations and non-profits
clinic with The Inner Pup, a veterinary clinic
to support communities during times of crises and
that provides low- and no-cost veterinary
natural disasters including donating $400,000 in
care for dogs in a Louisiana community. In
in-kind contributions to support veterinarians and
Canada, we supported rural and underserved
rescues impacted by Hurricane Ian and Fiona.
communities by providing in-kind contributions
to Veterinarians Without Borders. Across many
of our global markets, we provided product
contributions to support guide dog programs.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 28
Advancing Gender
Supplier Diversity
Equality within our
Supply Chain
At Zoetis, we recognize that engaging a diverse Our approach is proactive—we help
Corporate procurement is a lever for positive
pool of suppliers can have a transformative positive underrepresented groups navigate the
change. By encouraging our key suppliers
impact on our business and on the communities requirements to qualify for the tendering process
to work toward creating more diversity and
we serve. By providing access to economic and for certification as a diverse supplier. We
gender equity within their organizations,
opportunities for suppliers of all backgrounds, partner with external organizations, such as
Zoetis is now part of a growing coalition
supplier diversity can create jobs, close wage the National Minority Supplier Development
of companies advancing gender equality
gaps, improve impoverished communities and Council (NMSDC), National Gay & Lesbian
in communities around the world. In 2022,
change lives. In the past year, we continued Chamber of Commerce (NGLCC) and Women’s
we joined the Coalition for Gender Fair
to accelerate our supplier diversity program, Business Enterprise National Council (WBENC)
Procurement, an organization working to
promote an inclusive approach to procurement development councils. We also engage our
inspire progress toward UN SDG 5: Gender
and nurture relationships with traditionally colleagues in our supplier diversity initiatives to
Equality and establish a new industry
underrepresented or underserved suppliers.1 ensure fairness and equality across the business
standard for gender fair procurement.
landscape. In 2022, our supplier diversity team
To become certified as a Gender Fair
presented at the Zoetis Global Diversity Summit
32% company, a business must complete the
to help us raise awareness companywide.
Gender Fair assessment, which scores
organizations’ progress against the United
Nations Women’s Empowerment Principles.
12%
increase in U.S. Tier 1
To demonstrate our commitment to diversity
and gender equity and to lead by example,
and 2 diversity spend
in 2022, Zoetis took the assessment
increase in U.S.
in 2022 from 2021 2 and became certified as a Gender Fair
company, with an independently verified
Tier 1 and 2 diverse
score of 88/100, putting the company in
the top six percent of 800 companies in
suppliers in 2022
the Gender Fair Database. We encourage
from 2021 2 our suppliers to take the assessment, too.
Our plan is to reassess our progress year
on year and to encourage our high-impact
suppliers to be Gender Fair assessed.
1 Zoetis defines diverse suppliers as women-owned, minority-owned, small business, LGBTQ-owned, veteran-owned and other Longer term, as the Coalition grows, we aim
disadvantaged enterprises. To qualify, a supplier must apply to one or more certifying organizations.
to integrate the Gender Fair assessment
2 Zoetis diverse supplier spend increase is based on all procurement spend with diverse suppliers located in the United States.
as a standard procurement requirement
The increase in diversity spend and supplier count is based on both Tier 1 and Tier 2 diverse spend. Tier 1 diverse spend is defined
to evaluate our supplier landscape.
as a direct expenditure with a certified diverse supplier. Tier 2 is defined as spend attributable to Zoetis, either directly or indirectly,
through a primary supplier to a diverse supplier (certified or self-certified), but the diverse supplier has no direct contract with Zoetis.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 29
Animals
Innovation
in Animal
Health
We use our expertise in animal
health to solve sustainability
challenges facing animals
and people.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 30
As the world’s population Improving animal health reduces emissions
approaches the United Nation's intensity and enhances resource use efficiency by
reducing mortality and improving productivity.
projected 10 billion people by 2050,
some of our greatest challenges Zoetis is committed to bringing farmers and
are emerging at the intersection veterinarians innovative solutions that enhance
animal welfare, support the well-being of
of human, animal, environmental
communities and improve the impact of our
Securing a and economic health.
customers’ animals on the environment. Every day,
our colleagues are actively advancing research
At Zoetis, we work in that intersection and
Sustainable
to understand disease drivers in the animals we
offer solutions to some of these significant
serve and reduce the need to use antibiotics.
global challenges impacting our customers
Our scientists are driving innovation to predict,
Future and those who care for animals. By enhancing
prevent, detect and treat disease to help livestock
the health of livestock, our innovative solutions
farmers raise healthier, more productive animals
contribute to the economic well-being of
through
that ultimately contribute to a safe, sustainable
farmers and communities, mitigate agricultural
food supply and farmers’ own livelihoods.
emissions, and support global food security.
Animal
Livestock currently supports the livelihoods
of nearly 1.3 billion people around the world,
Health
according to the UN Food and Agriculture
Organization (FAO). By 2050, overall food
production must increase an estimated 70%
to meet global demands. In the face of growing
world human populations and rapid environmental
change, farmers need innovative solutions to
produce more food with fewer resources.
To meet these demands, we must ensure animals
are healthy and productive because according to
the FAO, over 20% of animal production losses
By 2050, overall
are linked to animal diseases—which impact
natural resources. The FAO recognizes that animal
food production
health can also play a key role in both reducing
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from livestock must increase
systems and improving food security. Healthier
by an estimated
animals are more productive and generate lower
emissions per unit of food produced.
70%
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 31
ASPIRATION
Provide products and services that enable productive and
sustainable livestock farms that preserve animal welfare
TARGET 2022 PROGRESS
Innovating Innovate to create and drive adoption of • Developed a Better Future Framework, which integrates key environmental, social and
key sustainable animal health solutions farmer/rancher economic considerations into our new product evaluation process.
for • Developed resources for U.S. Dairy colleagues to highlight how Zoetis
products can help dairy farmers achieve their sustainability goals throughout
the animal lifecycle, including genetics, vaccines and treatments.
Sustainable
• Completed a study of our CLARIFIDE® Plus product that shows the positive effect genetic
selection in the dairy industry can have on environmental sustainability outcomes.
Solutions
Equip our customers with innovative products • In Cattle, we expanded Protivity™, a vaccine to protect against M. Bovis, beyond
to support their ambitious environmental, the U.S. into Canada; launched Dectomax V® also branded as Valcor™ for
social and animal welfare goals broad-spectrum treatment and control of parasites; received expanded label
approval for implants under the brand name of Synovex® Choice, Synovex®
Plus and Synovex® One Feedlot, which have been shown to have performance
benefits proven to help make beef production reliable and sustainable.
• Celebrated 30 years of providing customers around the world with the Embrex
Inovoject® vaccination device, a result from decades of research, development,
innovation and strong customer service to offer an industry-changing solution
for hatcheries to vaccinate chicks in ovo (in the egg). This technology has played
a major part in improving the health, welfare, profitability and sustainability of
poultry production to meet the global demand for an affordable protein.
• Launched and received approvals in new markets for recombinant vector vaccines that
can be delivered in-ovo under the Poulvac® Procerta brand in several countries including
the U.S., Brazil, Mexico and India to give poultry customers solutions to protect against
diseases such as Marek’s, infectious bursal and Newcastle diseases. These vaccines
are proven to improve health, which can positively impact welfare and productivity to
help producers responsibly manage natural resources. Combined with our Embrex
Inovoject device, these vaccines can help improve efficiency and productivity in poultry.
• Expanded regulatory approvals for IMPROVAC® for use in female pigs intended for
market in Europe and Australia which supports pork producers’ animal welfare and
productivity goals to improve their sustainability. This complements the decades-
long approval of Improvac as an alternative to physical castration in male pigs.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 32
Innovating Solutions for
Better Health, Better Future
Better Future
As demonstrated by our 2022 progress,
Zoetis is dedicated to enhance animal health Framework
and support sustainable livestock production
by advancing innovation in medicines,
vaccines, diagnostics and other tools.
”With the launch of
Better Better
Using the UN SDGs to help structure our actions,
”We recognize the new poultry vaccines
health environment
we’ve developed a framework for delivering
challenges and climate in India that provide our
solutions to our customers. Our Better Future
Framework recognizes the benefits livestock expectations that our customers with more
provides for food security, human health and the livestock customers face, options to prevent Marek’s
ecosystem, and positions sustainable and efficient
and we’re committed to Disease and Newcastle
livestock production as an environmental solution. Better
Better
supporting them to meet disease, we are providing
animal
lives
As we continue to incorporate key environmental,
welfare their sustainability goals. products that help them
social and farmer economic considerations into
Healthy animals can play raise healthier birds for
our new product evaluation process, we are
focused on driving Better Future Framework a critical role in the world the country’s meat and egg
outcomes in these four, interconnected key
achieving the UN SDGs, markets. This may have the
As we continue to innovate solutions for animals’
benefit areas: better animal welfare, better
and I am proud that our added benefit of reducing
health needs, we will evaluate the sustainability
health, better environment and better lives.
attributes of our current and pipeline products innovation enables healthy, the need to use antibiotics
Our innovative products and services support our against our Better Future Framework and include
productive, sustainable to treat disease in poultry
livestock customers in their essential work toward this evaluation in our investment decision making.
livestock that ultimately and potential reduction in
sustainable food production—they also support
our companion animal customers by addressing provide nutrient-rich foods antimicrobial resistance
unmet medical needs as they deepen their
to people around the world.” over time.”
bonds with pets. Our areas of innovation include
developing new vaccines, enhancing diagnostics
Shari Westerfeld Kishore Prayaga
and genetic tests, exploring new classes of animal-
Vice President, U.S. Sustainability Director, Veterinary Medicine
only antibiotics, and advancing novel solutions
Customer Engagement Research & Development
for the management of infectious disease.
Mitigating Animal Emissions
Through Health Technologies
Only healthy, thriving livestock can ultimately We approach this challenge from several angles,
provide safe, nutritious food, and every animal including exploring new products that sustainably
lost to disease represents wasted feed, water optimize feed efficiency and productivity, new
and land resources. Improving animal health and technologies that mitigate methane emissions
performance outcomes in livestock is, therefore, and other environmental impacts, and genetic
essential to improving environmental sustainability tools that enable the selection of healthy and
measures in the food supply chain. Tools such efficient animals with a reduced carbon footprint.
as genetic testing and genomic predictions can
Through these innovative technology solutions, we
significantly improve animal health outcomes by
see opportunities to provide data-derived insights
reducing disease incidence and antibiotic use
and related decision-making tools to help livestock
while also improving productivity outcomes.
farmers and ranchers achieve their sustainability
Increasingly, our stakeholders recognize goals by managing inputs, optimizing outcomes,
genetic improvement provides an opportunity reducing methane emissions and continuing
to improve herd productivity, health and to enhance their environmental stewardship.
sustainability outcomes. Our field force team
uses data and information to derive meaningful
insights that help livestock owners, and their
consultants, make more informed decisions.
Our R&D efforts in this area are focused on
creating integrated management solutions and
predictive health and productivity analytics to
address the complex challenges associated with
improvements in animal health and productivity
that we also anticipate will positively impact
emissions.
Case
Study
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 33
Working with New Zealand Collaborators to Inhibit
Methane Emissions from Grazing Ruminants
Around the world, extensive grazing systems potential small molecules to enter Zoetis’
are the basis of the majority of methane R&D pipeline that can increase livestock
emissions produced by ruminant livestock, productivity and farmer/rancher profitability
including cattle and sheep. Our colleagues while reducing environmental impacts.
are investigating innovative solutions
Funded by the New Zealand government,
to characterize and manage emissions
the NZAGRC invests in and coordinates
release from grazing production systems.
research aimed at helping reduce New
Complementing our internal research, in
Zealand’s agricultural GHG emissions. The
2022, we announced a research collaboration
PGgRC, a partnership investor between
with leading scientists in New Zealand
the New Zealand livestock sector and
to explore mechanisms that may inhibit
government, was created to provide
methane emissions from grazing ruminants
knowledge and tools to help New Zealand
and, in turn, reduce GHG emissions.
farmers mitigate GHG emissions from the
The pillar of Zoetis’ collaboration with the agricultural sector. Through this collaboration,
Pastoral Greenhouse Gas Research Consortium Zoetis is working with NZAGRC to further
(PGgRC) and the New Zealand Agricultural develop these tools for livestock farmers.
Greenhouse Gas Research Centre (NZAGRC)
Zoetis’ collaboration in the research
is data-driven management of the effects
will ensure any viable solutions meet
of livestock production on the environment,
customers’ needs across livestock farm
including its contribution to anthropogenic
systems and ultimately advance them to
GHG emissions. Collaborators aim to identify
delivery into ruminant farmers’ hands.
ydutS
esaC
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 34
Dairy Genetic Testing Improves
Advancing Sustainability
Sustainability Outcomes
Goals Through Strategic
Because genetic testing can significantly more milk), contributed 10% less methane
improve animal health and sustainability emissions and ultimately required 27% less
Collaborations
outcomes, our colleagues are focused on labor for health needs as compared to the
providing customers with the tools and inferior 25% group. This demonstrates that
information needed to genetically test innovative technologies like the application
and select wellness traits for cows and of genetic testing using CLARIFIDE Plus We believe that strategic collaborations can help • Swine Prediction Tool: Announced in
calves. Our CLARIFIDE®, CLARIFIDE® Plus can reduce antibiotic usage without accelerate progress and deliver a sustained January 2023, Zoetis is part of an exclusive
and other genetic testing tools allow dairy compromising animal health and productivity. positive impact. Our collaboration with globally collaboration with EpiVax, Inc. to develop
farmers to access the most comprehensive and internationally recognized organizations has CircoMatch™, a unique bioinformatics tool
In 2022, we collaborated on a project, with
package of trait predictions and economic allowed us to engage in informed discussions, that predicts the coverage of Porcine
Farmers for Sustainable Food, Zoetis and
indexes, from birth to lactation. goal development and industry support on animal Circovirus Type 2 (PVC2) vaccines against
eight aligned farms, that substantiate how
health, welfare and sustainability, particularly field isolates of PVC2. This disease can cause
In 2020, we published a study in the Journal focusing on genetic improvement through
on the topic of sustainable beef production. production challenges generating significant
of Dairy Science demonstrating the ability CLARIFIDE Plus correlates to not only lifetime
economic losses to farmers. As we aspire to
of CLARIFIDE predictions to accurately profitability but also reductions in methane • Beef Roundtables: Comprised of beef
provide services that enable productive and
predict health, production and profitability intensity, antibiotic usage and feed needed for producers, processors, allied services and
sustainable livestock farming, CircoMatch
outcomes in individual dairy animals, maintenance on the farm. This project focused industries, retail companies, civil society,
can arm veterinarians and swine producers
enabling better farm management. on animals born in 2015 and genomically consulting, and national or regional roundtables,
with predictive data to make more informed
tested as heifers. Results showed that this the Global Roundtable for Sustainable Beef
In a 2021 study, we were also able to show decisions about their vaccination programs.
group of farms averaged $1,552 lifetime profit advances sustainability of the beef value
the positive effect that genetic selection in
per cow, 43% reduction in antibiotic usage, chain through leadership, science and multi-
the dairy industry can have on environmental
23% reduction in the number of replacement stakeholder engagement and collaboration.
sustainability outcomes. The U.S.-based study
heifers needed and 15.8 metric tons of Our Zoetis team actively participates on the
analyzed the impact of genomic data and
methane reduced per 1,000 cow herd. These executive committee and in working groups
on-farm records of the top 25% of cows with
outcomes were achieved by focusing on to advance sustainable beef production.
superior genetics in our proprietary Dairy
utilizing the DWP$ from CLARIFIDE Plus. We also participate in Regional Beef
Wellness Profit Index® (DWP$), a combined
Roundtables for the Brazilian Roundtable for
lifetime measure of genetic results for health,
Sustainable Beef, Canadian Roundtable for
productivity and profit for individual animals.
Sustainable Beef, New Zealand Roundtable
Cows with higher DWP$ were healthier (22%
for Sustainable Beef, and the U.S. Roundtable
fewer lame cows and 44% less antibiotics
for Sustainable Beef, where we leverage our
usage for their lifetimes), more productive (35%
colleagues’ technical expertise to support
the development of regional sustainability
goals. sector targets, tools and resources that
the full value chain can adopt and utilize.
Case
Study
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 35
Improving Outcomes
Making Aquaculture
for Colombia’s Tilapia
More Sustainable
Farmers
In 2022, Zoetis concluded a three-year
training program designed to increase
According to the World Organization for Animal productivity, profitability and sustainability
Health (WOAH), aquaculture accounts for nearly within Colombia’s tilapia production
50% of the aquatic animals used for food. Zoetis’ value chain. The Fish for Development
aquaculture business, PHARMAQ’s innovative tools project aimed to help the fish farming
can help the aquaculture industry make informed industry stimulate economic growth,
decisions and increase efficiency while managing create jobs and provide healthy food
fish health, reducing avoidable losses and improving to Colombia’s communities. PHARMAQ
fish welfare. Through our digital platform, iWISE, provided training on best practices for
we provide our customers with trustworthy data aquaculture and fish health management,
to manage biosecurity—the practice of minimizing including vaccination techniques.
the introduction, establishment, and spread of
Additional support was provided by the
pathogens and disease. Using the aggregate data,
Norwegian Agency for Development
we also provide trends and predictions to equip
Cooperation, the non-government
decision-makers with actionable information.
organization, Caritas and its Colombian
Since this information relates to the presence and
partner La Pastoral, as well as Colombia’s
prevalence of pathogens and how these affect
National Authority on Aquaculture and
the fish, there is a clear opportunity to identify and
Fishing. The program was considered
control risk factors for a specific geographic area.
a success and will be a reference for future
In 2022, we also introduced our Next Generation similar projects.
Sequencing tool for veterinarians and producers
to track and monitor infection. Combining genetic
information from pathogens with the geographical
occurrence and production methods enables us to
develop tools for molecular tracing of transmission
routes and the origin of infection. This knowledge
is crucial for developing and introducing preventive
measures in production to combat disease.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 36
Innovating Solutions to Support Longer,
Healthier Lives Together with our Pets
Pets are partners in our good health. Research Basepaws™ NewMetrica
by the Human Animal Bond Research Institute
Across species, genetic screening tools help Monitoring wellness has long been a routine human
has associated pet ownership with numerous
identify traits, biomarkers and potentially hereditary healthcare practice for the early detection of
health benefits, including lowering the risk of
conditions. Basepaws, acquired by Zoetis in 2022, disease. Through the acquisition of NewMetrica in
cardiovascular disease, alleviating anxiety and
puts an easy-to-use, genetic screening tool in cat 2022, Zoetis now provides an efficient mechanism
depression, reducing stress, and promoting social
owners’ hands to alert them of an individual cat’s for vets to identify pets’ health problems early.
interaction and exercise. Pet owners say their pets
potential disease risk so they can seek veterinary NewMetrica’s VetMetrica collection of quality-of-
lift their mood, relieve their sense of loneliness
care. Part of our genetics portfolio, Basepaws health life tools measures how an animal ‘feels’ about
and help them feel connected. It’s no wonder
reports facilitate more meaningful engagements its circumstances from its individual perspective.
global pet populations are rising as an increasing
between pet owners and veterinarians, increase This novel approach supports a significant shift
number of people recognize that our pets can
the likelihood of early detection and treatment of in veterinary care and animal welfare more
help us enjoy longer, happier, healthier lives.
disease, and potentially keep pets healthier longer. generally toward the attainment of good or
At Zoetis, our colleagues understand the value excellent quality of life in companion animals.
Vetscan Imagyst™
of the human-animal bond and are committed
to innovating solutions that improve the health,
The first multi-purpose technology of its kind,
well-being and quality of life for pets—including
our Vetscan Imagyst diagnostics tool has enabled
our own. That’s why we continue to launch new
veterinarians to efficiently perform applications
tools and technologies to help veterinarians
including artificial intelligence (AI) fecal analysis
and pet owners keep pets healthier longer.
and digital cytology image transfer—information
critical to diagnosing and treating sick pets.
In 2022, we added AI blood smear capabilities
to the tool. This innovative solution uses deep
machine learning AI to provide important blood
At Zoetis, our colleagues understand the
smear results within minutes, enabling veterinarians
to broaden in-clinic diagnostic offerings and
value of the human-animal bond and are
provide the best possible care for dogs and cats.
committed to innovating solutions that
improve the health, well-being and quality
of life for pets—including our own.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 37
Animal Care and Welfare
Zoetis is dedicated to helping animals live Oversight for all animal care and welfare programs As we further our commitment to animal
longer, healthier lives through the discovery begins with the Quality and Innovation Committee welfare, our global animal welfare compliance
and development of breakthrough medicines of our Board of Directors, with Executive Team function includes a Board-certified veterinary
and therapies. Animal-based research in the members reporting at least annually to the behaviorist to design our behavioral wellness
pharmaceutical industry remains critical in the Committee. Our policy is set by our Animal Welfare programs which includes enrichment,
discovery, evaluation and regulatory processes that Board, comprised of Zoetis colleagues, and our enhanced animal housing and training of the
lead to the development of products designed to Animal Care and Ethics Council ensures that the individuals that work with the animals.
save or improve animal lives throughout the world. policy is implemented at all our sites that use
We remain fully committed to the development animals. This policy is overseen by our Executive
and use of scientifically validated alternative Team and applies to all colleagues, contractors and
testing methods deemed acceptable to regulatory third-party affiliates who undertake any activity
authorities and that do not compromise patient or on behalf of Zoetis that involves animals. Zoetis
user safety or the effectiveness of our medicines. conducts monitoring of animal welfare programs,
We ensure that all use of animals globally is both at onsite locations and with external partners
reviewed for scientific merit, considers the 3R’s around the globe. Regular welfare audits are
—Replacement, Reduction and Refinement—and conducted by individuals experienced in animal
is conducted in an ethical way in accordance welfare regulations, auditing practices and sound
with our Policy on Animal Care and Welfare. professional judgment. The goal is to ensure
compliance with local animal care and welfare
This policy reflects our commitment to
standards and Zoetis policies. Site audits are
ensure that animals used in our research and
conducted at least annually, and external third-
medicine production are treated humanely.
party sites are audited based on the outcomes
It includes provisions for site accreditation by
of our third-party risk assessments.
AAALAC International and country-defined
regulatory monitoring and local ethical
oversight committee monitoring. Our standards
of animal care and welfare meet or exceed
those required by applicable local, national,
or international laws and regulations.
ydutS
esaC
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 38
Replacement, Reduction and Refinement In 2022, the TAFAT program has successfully
Using the 3Rs in our gained regulatory approval for non-animal
The guiding principles of the internationally
release tests for one of our Leptospirosis
established 3Rs underpin the humane use of
Fish Vaccine Research
vaccines for dogs and our Rabies vaccines in
animals in scientific research and testing. For
the EU which will replace the use of animals for
as long as it remains necessary to use animals
routine release testing, as well as progressed
in the discovery, development and evaluation
While all registered products are required other tests in development. Zoetis now also
of new veterinary medicines and therapies, we
to go through batch-potency testing to takes an “in vitro first” approach to potency
embrace the principles known as the 3R’s of
demonstrate that the product holds the test development for new vaccines.
animal research. The 3Rs include replacing animals
right quality and strength, colleagues in our
with alternative methods whenever possible,
In addition, a Belgian Walloon region project
aquatic health business, PHARMAQ, are
reducing the number of animals required and
grant called Innovlabpole was granted to Zoetis-
using the 3Rs to develop animal-friendly
refining studies to ensure humane conditions. Belgium in 2022. This grant provides financial
potency testing for our vaccines. One
support over three years for the development of
such approach is the use of blood tests to To implement the 3Rs effort, Zoetis has an
new technologies to replace in vivo assays with
determine efficacy in vaccinated fish, rather internal program called Transition Away from
in vitro tests and to assess new reagents like
than challenging fish with pathogens. This Animal Testing (TAFAT) where colleagues are
nanobodies and non-animal derived antibodies.
approach is regarded as a better alternative committed to developing and validating in vitro
from an animal welfare perspective. tests as alternatives to traditional in vivo tests
Further, an internal 3Rs Award program sponsored
required by regulatory agencies for product
by the Zoetis Animal Welfare Board demonstrates
release. We have targeted the reduction of the
Read more about PHARMAQ’s our commitment to recognize and reward scientific
use of animals in product release testing as a vital
use of the 3Rs here creativity. Award winners in 2022 included
aspect of adhering to the principles of the 3R’s.
teams at our sites in Brazil, China, Spain and
the U.S. and recognized achievements to refine
elements of our necessary animal research to
provide more enrichment to animals involved as
well as reduce the number of animals needed
in certain studies through innovative data
generation techniques and study efficiency.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 39
Advancing the use of Alternative Models • AnimalhealthEurope, the voice of the EU
Working
Through Partnerships and Engagements animal health industry, with a focus on the
availability of animal medicines in a sustainable
Collaboratively with
Zoetis is committed to cross-industry and cross-
way, including through advocating for a high
sectorial efforts to develop and refine new in vitro
standard of animal welfare. Zoetis is an active Regulators to Advance
testing and predictive informatics-based systems
member of the animal welfare task force as
that hold promise for reducing animal usage as
Alternatives to Animal
well as leading technical and regulatory input
well as fostering global regulatory acceptance.
in this area. This interaction is critical to further
To drive our commitment, we are members of Testing
regulatory understanding and acceptance,
organizations and actively engage with and lead
closely with both the European Medicines
projects to move forward both the science and
Replacing or refining the use of animals
Agency (EMA) and national competent
regulatory acceptance. A few examples include:
in both regulatory testing and routine
authorities and their testing laboratories.
production is an area where global alignment
• The European Partnership for Alternatives
• HealthforAnimals, the voice of the global
and acceptance is critical for success in
to Animal Testing, which is instrumental
animal health industry. Zoetis is an active
addition to advancing science. Zoetis
for the 3Rs’ harmonization efforts. Zoetis
member of the 3Rs taskforce focused on
works directly with regulators and through
represented the Animal Health industry
advancing the regulatory acceptance of
the previously mentioned partnerships to
at the 2022 Partners forum on exposure
alternatives to animal testing globally.
increase the recognition and acceptance
considerations for human safety which is
In 2022, Zoetis collaborated with HealthforAnimals, of alternative models where such alternatives
an important area of animal use for human
International Alliance for Biological Standardization can be used appropriately. Zoetis is
safety assessment of animal medicines.
(IABS) and Animal Free Safety Assessment committed to advancing both the science
• The European Animal Research Association,
(AFSA) on a series of webinars and a workshop and regulatory understanding to facilitate this
a communication and advocacy group for
to promote acceptance of non-animal and takes a lead role in international efforts.
animal research. Through EARA we can
methods for vaccine batch release, engaging
In addition, Zoetis colleagues in Europe
further communication and understanding for
with regulators from around the world.
played a key role in the VAC2VAC project,
stakeholders of the way in which animals are
used by our industry and the work being done We also continue to lead the drive toward a public, private partnership dedicated
to reduce or replace animal use where possible. increasing acceptance of alternatives to to developing quality control testing
animals for both routine product release and approaches for human and veterinary
for product development where replacement vaccines using non-animal methods. The
or refinement is scientifically justified. six-year project concluded in February
2022 and has resulted in the validation of
two in vitro assays that are approved as
replacements for animal tests. Additional
in vitro assays are still being explored.
Moreover, the VAC2VAC project produced
21 peer-reviewed open access publications
on both technical aspects and methods as
well as promotion of regulatory acceptance.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 40
We recognize that animal and human health
ASPIRATION
are interdependent. We advocate for taking a
Promote a preventive approach to animal health with positive One Health approach to the responsible use of
antibiotics across human and veterinary medicine,
implications on human health
understanding that healthy animals help reduce the
risk of zoonotic infectious diseases that can pass
TARGET 2022 PROGRESS
between animals and people. Healthy livestock,
Antimicrobial poultry and fish are essential to a safe, sustainable
Promote responsible use of antibiotics • Continued to collaborate with global stakeholders,
through technical education, including the International Consortium for Antimicrobial food supply. Responsible use of antibiotics in
introducing antibiotic alternatives, and Stewardship in Agriculture and the Antimicrobial food-producing animals makes a difference in
Stewardship
developing diagnostic and digital tools Resistance (AMR) Cross-Industry Expert Working Group being able to meet the challenge of maintaining
of the Business Council for the United Nations.
and increasing food safety and food security. With
few alternatives today for treating life-threatening
• Continued to lead an Animal Health Institute working group on
multiple antibiotic topics and advocating for veterinary oversight bacterial infections in animals, antibiotics are
of antimicrobial use. These activities include One Health essential to animal health and their welfare.
discussions on topics such as duration of use, U.S. Food and
Drug Administration’s (FDA) Draft Guidance 152 on evaluating Our vision is a world where veterinary antibiotics
the safety of antimicrobial new animal drugs with regard to are used responsibly under the supervision of
their microbiological effects on bacteria of human health a veterinarian, and where they maintain their
concern, and World Health Organization antimicrobial list.
value as a therapeutic tool. Our commitment to
responsible use of antibiotics in animals includes:
• Zoetis China, together with the Chinese Veterinary Medical
Association and the Small Animal Medicine Branch of
• Advocating for the health of animals
the Chinese Society of Animal Husbandry and Veterinary
and veterinary involvement
Medicine, released the Diagnosis and Treatment Guideline
of Bacterial Infectious Diseases in Dogs and Cats.
• Innovating with a focus on prevention
• In Australia, completed the second edition of a Zoetis- • Collaborating across the value chain and beyond
funded Australian Infectious Disease Advisory Panel
As part of our commitment to responsibly using
Antibiotic Prescribing Guidelines for Companion Animals.
antibiotics in animals, we do not sell medically
Innovate around antimicrobial resistance • In support of the U.S. FDA’s Guidance for Industry 263 important antibiotics, as classified by the U.S. FDA,
to reduce the dependency on antibiotic (which outlines plans to transition all remaining over- for growth promotion in animals anywhere in the
classes shared with human health the-counter products containing medically important
world. This change took effect in the EU at the
antibiotics to prescription status), all Zoetis over-the-
beginning of 2006, in the U.S. at the beginning
counter labeling has been revised, submitted and approved
of 2017 and in remaining markets in 2020.
by the U.S. FDA’s Center for Veterinary Medicine.
Read our Position on
• Launched Apoquel Chewable, which treats itchy atopic
Responsible Use of dermatitis in dogs, in the EU and UK to provide the
same proven medication in a delivery option designed
Antibiotics in Animals to increase ease of use and compliance to promote
treatment success. Increased compliance has been
shown to reduce the need for antibiotic intervention.
Livestock antibiotic sales
22%
22%
20%
19%
18%
17%
16%
14%
14%
12%
12%
10%
FY18 FY19 FY20 FY21 FY22
$1,268 $1,198 $1,145 $1,090 $951
Total revenue from livestock antibiotics, which
includes injectables and medicated feed additives,
has decreased due to many factors. Among these
is Zoetis’ commitment to bringing innovation
focused on prevention (e.g. vaccines), genetic
testing, diagnostics, data analytics and supporting
our customers with responsible use education.
Changing regulations in key markets and generic
competition have also contributed to this impact.
The majority of revenue from livestock antibiotics
is from injectables, which are lower volume per
dose and typically targeted for individual use.
eunever
latot
fo
tnecreP
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 41
Advocating for the health
of animals and veterinary
involvement
We believe that veterinary professionals should be
involved in all decisions about the use of antibiotic On-Demand Education
medicines in animals to protect animal and human
health, to assure the safety of the food supply, and and Training for our
to help reduce the risk of resistance.
Customers
Across the globe, our technical service
veterinarians and field representatives support our
To help our customers effectively use our
customers by sharing knowledge on responsible
animal health solutions and improve the
use of our antibiotic medicines, including proper
sustainability of their businesses, we offer
indications, dosages, routes of administration
over 1,500 on-demand complimentary
and the importance of withdrawal periods, as
courses, many with continuing education in
well as educating customers on practices such as
multiple languages reaching over 92,000
vaccination and other husbandry protocols that can
customers including veterinary professionals,
help prevent common diseases.
livestock farmers and their teams in more
In the U.S., we support FDA’s Guidance for Industry
Revenue ($M) than 22 countries. The registered customers
263, which outlines plans to transition all remaining
in our online learning community can keep
over-the-counter products containing medically
Supporting HealthforAnimal’s Roadmap skills current with up-to-date training on key
important antibiotics to prescription status. We are
to Reducing the Need for Antibiotics disease state conditions, product information
committed to supporting our customers through the
and training, professional development
As a member of the global trade association, transition period to help ensure the health and well-
opportunities, and business solutions across
HealthforAnimals, of which our CEO, Kristin being of the animals in their care.
multiple species. As an example, one course
Peck, serves as the President, Zoetis is working
In the EU, we are engaged in multi-stakeholder provides instruction on caring for newborn
with our peers to achieve the organization’s
efforts, including the European Platform for the piglets with proactive, preventative healthcare
Roadmap to Reducing the Need for Antibiotics.
Responsible Using of Medicines in Animals in within a pig’s first 24 hours can reduce illness,
The roadmap outlines how countries can
which we are actively involved via our industry as well as the need for antibiotics.
improve prevention, diagnosis and treatment
trade association AnimalhealthEurope. Through this
of animal disease to reduce antibiotic need,
effort, we are promoting best-practice frameworks
and it included 25 measurable commitments
for the responsible use of veterinary medicines See additional information about
that the industry pledged to complete by to ensure better prevention and control of animal our on-demand education
2025, such as delivering 50 new vaccines, diseases and to reduce the need to use antibiotics.
investing in veterinary training and more.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 42
Innovating with a focus
Alternatives to
on prevention Antibiotics
We are committed to veterinarians having
viable treatment options to ensure the health
and welfare of the animals in their care.
Our innovation approach includes seeking
We are investing in research and development ”We are focused on the
new classes of antibiotics for veterinary use
across a continuum of care to provide our
health of animals, so first
customers with new and enhanced solutions to only and exploring novel, non-antibiotic
and foremost, we want
better predict, prevent, detect and treat disease anti-infective solutions. Over the past
in their animals. We support reducing the need 20 years, our scientists have initiated 18 to help our customers
to use antibiotics by encouraging a preventative projects related to potential solutions for the
prevent disease in their
approach through good animal husbandry, nutrition, treatment and control of common disease
flocks and herds. This
vaccination programs and our programs emphasize challenges including necrotic enteritis in
helping our customers prevent disease—through poultry, E.coli and swine respiratory disease can help reduce the need
vaccines targeted against viral and bacterial in pigs, as well as mastitis, metritis, liver
to use antibiotics. New
pathogens, for example—which can help reduce abscesses and bovine respiratory disease
vaccines, especially those
the need to use antibiotics for treatment. in dairy and/or beef cattle. Today, half of
these projects continue through our research for bacterial pathogens,
In 2022, we received approval for several livestock
vaccines in additional markets which support the and development process to find the best are one important tool as
solutions for our customers that also support
HealthforAnimals Roadmap to Reducing the Need we strive to develop more
our commitment to reduce the dependency
for Antibiotics. We recognize that, despite the
alternatives to existing
on antibiotic classes shared with human
best preventative care, disease can still occur, and
treatment may be needed. Alongside our approach health. antibiotics.”
to novel anti-infective solutions, we’re also exploring
To simply replace today’s extremely effective
Véronique Moulin
additional diagnostics, immunomodulators and other
antibiotics is a monumental challenge, and
Director, Bovine Biologics Research
pathways as well as precision animal health tools,
one that human health is faced with as
utilizing digital technologies and data analytics that
well. As the leader in animal health, we are
can help livestock producers make earlier and more
committed to responsible use of antibiotics
informed healthcare decisions for their animals.
in animals to help ensure these vital tools
remain available and effective for treatment
of disease when needed.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 43
Through this membership, Zoetis was the only International Consortium for Antimicrobial
animal health company invited to speak at Stewardship in Agriculture
Collaborating Across the
a virtual forum of the Global Leaders Group
Zoetis continues to actively participate in and
(GLG) on AMR held in January 2023. The GLG
provide veterinary expertise to the International
consists of world leaders and experts from across
Value Chain and Beyond Consortium for Antimicrobial Stewardship in
sectors working together to accelerate political
Agriculture (ICASA), the first research consortium
action on antimicrobial resistance, including
to bring together participants representing all
financing the global response to AMR. This
stages of the U.S. livestock supply chain to
GLG forum was an important step ahead of the
promote targeted antibiotic use, advance animal
2024 High-level Meeting on AMR, which will
health and welfare and increase transparency in
We collaborate in a One Health approach, working The program has grown to include 29 bacterial
be hosted by the Quadripartite of the FAO, UN
food production practices. Established in 2019 by
with leaders from the veterinary and human health pathogens from five animal species through
Environment Programme, WHO and the WOAH.
the Foundation for Food & Agriculture Research
professions, food industry, and public health the participation of 32 veterinary diagnostic
(FFAR), ICASA currently has 22 research projects
to advance the responsible use of antibiotics laboratories in the U.S. and Canada. Our program Reagan-Udall Foundation for the FDA
in progress, each creating practical solutions like
and preserve animal health and welfare. expanded to include monitoring bovine mastitis
In the U.S., Zoetis participated in one-on-one
new technologies and management practices
pathogens in 2001, equine pathogens in 2010,
conversations and a roundtable as part of the
AMR Surveillance Monitoring Program that promote judicious use of antibiotics.
and canine and feline skin and soft tissue and
Reagan-Udall Foundation for the FDA’s partnership
We marked 25 years of commitment to our AMR urinary tract infection pathogens in 2011. In a
with the FDA’s Center for Veterinary Medicine. Codex Task Force on Antimicrobial Resistance
surveillance monitoring program in 2022. This recent publication from our AMR surveillance
This collaboration explored the development
program is one way we collaborate to ensure monitoring program, our scientists noted Swine Since 2010, as either a member of
of a public-private partnership framework for
antibiotics remain effective for decades to Respiratory Disease program resistance is not HealthforAnimals or the United States Delegations
collecting and analyzing real-world data regarding
come. We conduct surveillance for antimicrobial increasing, and they are seeing no changes to the task force, Zoetis has participated in
antimicrobial use in food-producing animals.
resistance in pathogens that threaten the health in susceptibility against our antimicrobials. Codex Task Force on Antimicrobial Resistance’s
efforts to develop the Code of Practice and
of animal species to help preserve the efficacy
Business Council for the United Nations Integrated Surveillance documents. Both the
of antibiotics. In 1998, Zoetis began actively
Code of Practice and the Integrated Surveillance
monitoring the antimicrobial susceptibility of In our third year of participation with the AMR
documents provide specific guidance on the
our approved products labeled for bovine and Cross-Industry Expert Working Group of the
responsible use of antibiotics in veterinary
swine bacterial disease pathogens to identify Business Council for the United Nations, we
medicine as well as the development of country-
potential changes in susceptibility and ultimately continue to collaborate with human health,
based surveillance programs for quantitating
help ensure antibiotics remain effective. agriculture, animal husbandry, veterinary services,
change in AMR resulting from these practices.
the financial sector and other industries involved
in antimicrobial stewardship and solutions that
contribute to the United Nations leadership on
AMR. In coordination with key stakeholders
including the World Health Organization (WHO),
FAO and WOAH, we support the collective
action and knowledge exchange on AMR.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 44
The funded five-year A.L.P.H.A. initiative came
ASPIRATION
to a close in August 2022, and all activities were
Grow access to vet care in transitioned to the commercial operations of
emerging markets the broader Sub-Saharan Africa region. Zoetis
committed to sustain and grow its presence in the
region by focusing on distribution improvement and
Through our A.L.P.H.A. and A.L.P.H.A Plus initiatives
geographical coverage, technical support, diagnostic
with focus in Africa, by 2025 we will1:
support, digital capabilities, training and education and
Access to
support of private-public partnerships. Learnings from
TARGET 2022 PROGRESS
the A.L.P.H.A. initiative have been expanded to benefit
Veterinary the broader geographical coverage of the wider
Train 100,000 farmers, veterinary Trained over 30,000 farmers, veterinarians, para-
region, and we have been assessing future investment
professionals and lab technicians veterinarians, distributors and lab personnel during
opportunities (beyond typical commercial presence)
1,200+ training days. Training courses have been
Care in
in the region to identify and pursue opportunities
tailored to address training gaps identified by
regional surveys to ensure maximum relevance to for development partnerships in the near future.
stakeholders with the aim of increasing participation.
Emerging
In 2023, with continued support from the Bill & Melinda
Gates Foundation, Zoetis launched a new initiative that
Increase women trainees to 50% of trainees 30% of in-person trainees are women. During the
scales up our initial A.L.P.H.A. efforts. The new five-
Markets COVID-19 pandemic, there was a shift toward online
training delivery which resulted in a decrease in year A.L.P.H.A. Plus initiative will include aquaculture
women participants due to lower digital readiness in addition to cattle and poultry and will include an
and connectivity availability. In 2022 we saw a additional seven countries in Sub-Saharan Africa.
positive trend compared to 2021 and expect it to Drawing on the success from the past five years,
improve as we move back to more in-person training. we will maintain a strong focus on gender diversity,
including women-led, female-only training courses
Treat 10 million cows with positive Treated 9.7 million cows.2
optimally designed to maximize attendance. We also
implications on smallholder livelihoods,
plan to further develop distribution and training models
food security and the environment
for ‘last mile’ networks, extend disease diagnostic
services through laboratory networks in cooperation
Treat 200 million chickens with positive Treated 196 million chickens.3
with public and private local partners, as well as
implications on smallholder livelihoods,
develop outcomes research and digital services.
food security and the environment
In line with our purpose to nurture the world livestock health and positively impact farmers’
and humankind by advancing care for animals, livelihoods in Sub-Saharan Africa. The five-year
we support customers in underserved rural initiative began in 2017 in Uganda, Nigeria and
communities working to predict, prevent, detect and Ethiopia, and later expanded into Tanzania.
treat illness in animals and to address unmet medical
1 Progress is year to date and is based on a 2019 baseline.
It strived for gender equality in animal health training
needs. Through this, we also advance the shift from
2 Assumption used that every cow receives at least two doses
for women and was anchored on three pillars:
disease treatment to prevention, thus reducing the (treatment and prevention).
need to use antimicrobials in livestock. One way that • Veterinary medicines and services 3 In 2021, we revised our assumptions from every bird
we supported this is through our African Livestock receiving at least three doses to five doses (treatment and
Productivity and Health Advancement (A.L.P.H.A.) • Veterinary laboratory networks prevention) due to the higher rate of adoption of broader
vaccinations. We recalculated 2020 data to reflect this
initiative, co-funded with the Bill & Melinda Gates
• Training and education
change and it is reflected in the reported number. The newer
Foundation. The initiative’s aim was to help improve
calculation assumption has been applied to 2022 data.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 45
Veterinary Laboratory Networks
Zoetis was named to Fortune’s
Farmers in Sub-Saharan Africa face negative
2022 Change the World list, a
economic impacts due to inappropriate disease
global ranking of the top 50
treatments and an increased risk of antimicrobial
companies making a positive
resistance due to the lack of diagnostic services,
social impact through business
including veterinary input and correct disease
diagnosis. Through A.L.P.H.A., we funded the practices that are integral to
development of 16 partner veterinary diagnostic their core corporate purpose.
“Being recognized by Fortune is a proud moment for the Zoetis
labs to serve farmers and veterinarians for
team and affirms the impact we can have by living our purpose livestock productivity diseases. An estimated Our inclusion on the list is based
26,700 chicken flocks and 42,100 cows have on our A.L.P.H.A. initiative
to nurture the world and humankind by advancing animal care
been tested to-date in an effort to improve and its impact in establishing
in all continents. Access to medicines, services and learnings
applied treatment and reduce antibiotic usage.
sustainable veterinary care
will help farmers raise healthier animals, improve productivity
in Sub-Saharan Africa.
During 2022, the scope of laboratory network
and secure more sustainable revenue, which is critical to the
development was shifted to support several
economic development and well-being of the Sub-Saharan
veterinary laboratory partners who met a defined
To date, over 30,000 individuals, including farmers,
region and its population. I could not be prouder of the work diagnostics sustainability criteria. We stopped
veterinarians and para-veterinarians, distributors,
routinely funding general set-up and running costs
of A.L.P.H.A. colleagues supported by One Zoetis team spirit
and lab personnel have been trained through over
of labs, and instead focused on strengthening
during the first five-year initiative, and I am looking forward 1,200 training days. The estimated extended reach
laboratory capacity-building efforts through
of our trainings is over 1.5 million people through a
to the future success with A.L.P.H.A. Plus.” funding for research development, and commercial
Train-the-Trainer approach.1 Training courses have
propositions linked with our Continuum of Care
been tailored to address training gaps identified
approach – focusing on innovative solutions
Gabriel Varga that predict, prevent, detect and treat diseases. by regional surveys to ensure maximum relevance
Regional Director, Sub-Saharan Africa, Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa Cluster Expansion of the ‘lab-in-a-pocket’ concept app to stakeholders. Disease prevention through
vaccination is at the forefront of training topics.
called ‘Lab Cards’ continued in 2022 to help improve
sample management and results communication.
Veterinary Medicines and Services Nigeria, Ethiopia and Tanzania. The number of During the COVID-19 pandemic, there was a shift
The merits of this app have been recognized
doses of treatment and prevention products toward online training delivery – which unfortunately
We provide veterinarians and farmers throughout internationally, with the app now tailored for use
supplied to these markets have increased 48- resulted in a decrease in participation of females
Sub-Saharan Africa with tools to help them in Thailand and other Sub-Saharan Africa counties.
fold in 2022 compared to 2016, which will have due to lower digital readiness and connectivity
raise healthier and more productive animals –
a considerable impact on livestock health in the availability. In 2022 we saw a positive trend
contributing to both a sustainable food supply and Training and Education
region. The product registration dossiers and compared to 2021, with 31% female attendance
their livelihood. Our livestock portfolio includes
Training and education are important in
experience gathered for the A.L.P.H.A. initiative of all (online and in-person) training sessions.
products for poultry, ruminants and swine, including
Sub-Saharan Africa to help empower local
has been applied to other countries within the
important vaccines for disease prevention. Of
communities to improve livestock health and
Sub-Saharan Africa region. In 2022, activities were
our products, 73 have received full regulatory
welfare and to ensure that veterinary medicines
targeted to understand unmet animal health needs
approval for commercialization by the end of 2022,
are effective through correct storage and
in the region, identifying interventions which will
and an additional 11 new product registrations
administration to animals.
have high future impact for local stakeholders to
were submitted which will continue to increase
1 Assumption used that every trained person
continue to help them raise healthy animals.
the availability of quality products in Uganda,
trains 50 other people.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 46
A One Health approach recognizes that the
ASPIRATION
health of animals, humans and the environment
Combat diseases that pose the greatest risk
are interdependent. According to the WHO, at
to animals and humans least 75% of emerging infectious diseases have
an animal origin. As part of our commitment to a
Leverage the Zoetis Center for Transboundary and Emerging Diseases to healthier, more sustainable future, our scientists
develop vaccines for high-impact emerging diseases globally are using their expertise to combat diseases that
Combat pose the greatest risk to animals and humans.
TARGET 2022 PROGRESS
Through our Center for Transboundary and
Diseases Invest in R&D for emerging • Continued to invest in developing vaccines and Emerging Diseases (CTED), Zoetis monitors
infectious diseases diagnostics against emerging infectious disease, including approximately 200 diseases identified by WHO
Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus-2 as zoonotic—those shared between animals and
(SARS-CoV-2), Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza,
humans—as well as transboundary and emerging
Foot-and-Mouth Disease and African Swine Fever.
diseases that threaten livestock and pets. These
• Continued our partnership with Texas A&M University include emerging new infectious diseases,
to operate the Transboundary and Emerging Disease
such as COVID-19, and ever-present disease
Vaccine Development Facility in College Station, Texas.
threats such as Foot-and-Mouth Disease (FMD)
• Continued partnering with leading researchers to pursue a that affects cattle, pigs and sheep, and African
safe and efficacious vaccine against African Swine Fever,
Swine Fever (ASF), which can devastate herds,
including the U.S. Department of Agriculture, The Pirbright
impact the food supply and harm the incomes of
Institute (UK) and Friedrich Loeffler Institute (Germany).
farmers who depend on animals for livelihoods.
Provide our innovative vaccines • Initiated distribution of Rabies vaccine to the WOAH
Through CTED, Zoetis has developed or supported
to relevant markets via tenders or Rabies Vaccine Bank to support the Zero by 30
vaccines for high-impact emerging diseases
other go-to-market pathways initiative to eliminate human deaths from Rabies.
around the world, including Avian Influenza,
• Renewed contract to provide Classical Swine Fever
Porcine Epidemic Diarrhea Virus, Schmallenberg
Virus (CSFV) vaccine to the U.S. National Veterinary
Virus, Hendra Virus, Bluetongue Virus, Lumpy
Stockpile until 2027. As of 2021, our CSFV vaccine
Skin Disease, Canine Influenza, Rabies, Lyme
includes an added claim for vaccinating breeding sows to
disease, West Nile Virus and SARS-CoV-2. CTED
reduce transplacental infection caused by CSFV to give
farmers and governments more tools to work towards continues to make advancements with FMD and
eradicating the diseases by providing fetal protection. ASF. Our scientists also organize our response
to outbreaks of infectious diseases worldwide,
• In Brazil we worked in collaboration with the Brazilian
Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (MAPA), mobilizing resources from across the company and
Brazilian Association of Swine Producers, Brazilian working in close collaboration with leaders from
Association of Animal Proteins and many other government and health organizations, as well as
associations in the National Plan of Classical Swine
veterinary and livestock agricultural communities
Fever Eradication Program. In 2022, we donated
to identify infectious disease threats early and
approximately 200 thousand doses of vaccine and
develop solutions to help rapidly control them.
mobilized resources to do trainings to ensure the plan
was implemented. Additionally, we have an agreement
with MAPA to provide vaccine to the stockpile.
Globally, according to the WHO, the economic
burden of Rabies is estimated at $8.6 billion per
Rabies
year, and yet for a relatively low cost, it is possible
to stop transmission at its source and save human
lives. Mass dog vaccination is a proven, cost-
effective way to prevent people from dying from
dog-mediated Rabies. A collaborative response
through Rabies programs contributes to disease
prevention and preparedness; this means integrated
Rabies elimination is a model for One Health
collaboration. In 2022, Zoetis contributed to the
mission of a global collaboration dedicated to
reaching zero human deaths by Rabies by 2030.
Led by WHO, WOAH, FAO and the Global Alliance
for Rabies Control, the United Against Rabies
collaboration leverages existing tools and expertise
in a coordinated way to empower, engage and
enable countries to save human lives from this
preventable disease. In 2022, our colleagues
participated in the United Against Rabies forum in
RABIES Paris, where stakeholders from around the world
shared information and ideas on how to achieve
In alignment with UN SDG 3 the collaboration’s Zero by 30 goal (zero human
deaths from dog-mediated Rabies by 2030).
to ensure healthy lives and
promote wellbeing for all at
all ages, our contributions
to global efforts to end
human deaths from dog-
mediated Rabies will save the
lives of children, protect the
livelihood of adults, improve
equity and access to care,
and strengthen human and
veterinary health systems.
Case
Study
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 47
As the Rabies vaccine is a key component of the
Zero by 30 strategy, WOAH’s Rabies Vaccine Bank Protecting
is vital to the program’s success. Created in 2012
to increase access to quality-assured, affordable Endangered Species
dog Rabies vaccines for use in planned vaccination
from Disease
campaigns—particularly in the world’s poorest and
Rabies is a vaccine-preventable, zoonotic viral
most disadvantaged communities—WOAH’s Rabies
disease affecting the central nervous system.
Vaccine Bank provides vital tools to governments
Rabies can affect both domestic and wild animals
Around the world, Zoetis vaccines help
and nongovernmental organizations advancing
and can be transmitted to people and animals
protect the lives of animals every day. In New
the Zero by 30 goal. In 2021, WOAH designated
via saliva—usually through bites or scratches—
Zealand, we partnered with Pacificvet Limited
Zoetis as one of the vaccine bank’s two approved
with nearly all human cases caused by dog
to support conservation efforts to protect
vaccine suppliers. In 2022, Zoetis initiated the
bites. Once clinical symptoms appear, Rabies
critically endangered bird species, including
distribution of our Rabies vaccine to meet WOAH
is virtually 100% fatal. Although it’s the oldest
the kākāpō, the world’s only flightless parrot.
requirements. Our continuing involvement,
disease known to affect both animals and humans,
By providing vaccines and technical expertise
contracted for through 2025, will help contribute
according to the WHO, Rabies is responsible
to the WOAH’s member States’ objectives. to species recovery programs, we’re part of
for the deaths of an estimated 59,000 people
conservation efforts to increase populations
globally each year, 40% of whom are children.
of kākāpō, takahē, kiwi, Campbell Island
teal and other endangered bird species.
”We are pleased to support
a One Health approach
to address Rabies by
working closely with
leaders from government,
health organizations, and
veterinarians to support the
Zero by 30 Initiative with our
vaccines.”
John M. Hardham, Ph.D
Director, Center for Transboundary
and Emerging Diseases
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 48
Avian COVID-19 Foot-and- African Swine
Influenza Mouth Fever
At the onset of the coronavirus pandemic, as
researchers and scientists rushed to develop
COVID-19 vaccines to protect the global
Disease
Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza (HPAI) is a ASF is an infectious and highly contagious viral
human population, our colleagues initiated the
highly contagious virus causing severe disease disease. The ASF virus causes illness exclusively
development of a safe and effective vaccine to
and death in infected birds, including poultry, fowl, in domestic and wild pigs and is, therefore, neither
protect vulnerable animals against the virus.
and other domestic and wild birds. HPAI poses FMD is a severe and highly contagious viral a public health threat nor a food safety concern.
an unprecedented threat to poultry worldwide. Led by researchers and scientists in our CTED, disease. The FMD virus causes illness in cows, However, because a widespread outbreak would
According to the WOAH, the number of birds Zoetis discovered and developed a vaccine pigs, sheep, goats, deer and other animals with have tremendous negative consequences on
affected has risen from 40 million in 2018 to over to provide protection for great apes, bears, divided hooves. While FMD is not a public health sustainable agricultural systems, producers’
200 million in early 2023, and this may continue tigers, lions, mink and more than 300 other or food safety threat, a widespread outbreak livelihoods, food supply and food security,
to increase in the coming years. It is a critical mammalian species known to be susceptible would have a severe impact on the economy developing an ASF vaccine remains among Zoetis’
issue for our customers and the wider food value to SARS-CoV-2. Since receiving a conditional and devastating negative impacts on sustainable top priorities. In 2022, our continuing pursuit
chain as a steady supply of eggs and poultry license from the USDA in 2021, we have agricultural systems and food security. of a safe and efficacious vaccine against ASF
meat is essential to an affordable food supply. manufactured approximately 80,000 doses of
includes partnerships with leading researchers
With the Texas A&M University System’s Center
vaccine doses available for donation and have
from the USDA, The Pirbright Institute (UK)
Zoetis has a long history of rapidly developing for Innovation in Advanced Development and
received—as of year-end 2022—requests to
and Friedrich Loeffler Institute (Germany).
HPAI vaccines and deploying them when needed. Manufacturing (CIADM), we continue to operate
donate approximately 30,000 doses to more
In 2005, we developed our first Avian Influenza the Transboundary and Emerging Disease
than 140 zoos, conservatories, sanctuaries and
(AI) vaccine to address a global outbreak and Vaccine Development Facility in College Station,
animal organizations across the U.S., Canada,
subsequently updated our vaccine to the newer Texas. The facility is focused on accelerating the
Chile and more than a dozen other countries.
outbreak virus from 2014, for which the U.S.
development of transboundary and emerging
Department of Agriculture (USDA) granted a The COVID-19 pandemic highlighted the disease vaccines—including those for FMD.
conditional license. In 2016, we supplied this vaccine
significance of the connection between animal While FMD vaccines are the initial focus of
to the National Veterinary Stockpile. We also sell
health and human health and demonstrated the center’s vaccine development, the facility
vaccines to markets that vaccinate for AI, including
the importance of a One Health approach to can be expanded to accommodate vaccine
Egypt, Jordan, Iraq, Vietnam and New Zealand.
effective prevention, detection, and treatment development to combat other transboundary
of disease in human and veterinary healthcare. and emerging diseases in the future.
The current outbreak, which began in 2022, has
For our impactful and dedicated effort to help
already lasted longer and affected millions more
combat this emerging infectious disease, Zoetis
birds than previous outbreaks, which were seasonal.
was named to Fast Company’s list of Most
As leaders in the development of vaccines for
Innovative Companies for 2022, ranking eighth
transboundary and emerging diseases, we are
in the corporate social responsibility category.
monitoring the situation and stand ready to develop
a vaccine if that is the route our poultry customers
and regulatory authorities want to take. We also
continue to support our customers with biosecurity
needs to try to keep HPAI out of their flocks.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 49
Planet
The Drive
to Protect
Our Planet
We steward resources responsibly
and minimize our impact, as we
deliver products and services that
advance the health of animals.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 50
ASPIRATION
Minimize our carbon footprint
TARGET 2022 PROGRESS
Become carbon neutral in our • Developed a roadmap to achieve our carbon neutrality target that includes
own operations by 2030 short-, medium- and long-term initiatives including capital expense planning.
Our Carbon
• Completed an energy and carbon assessment at our 10 largest sites—those
responsible for 88% of our energy use—resulting in the identification of more than 100
energy efficiency projects.
Footprint
Source 100% renewable electricity1 by 2030 • 14.7% renewable electricity sourced to date aligned with our RE100 commitment.2
• 6.4% renewable energy sourced to date.3
• Installed four photovoltaic solar arrays at three manufacturing sites and one R&D site.
Reduce energy intensity in manufacturing • Reduced energy intensity in manufacturing and R&D by 13.5% compared to 2019
and R&D by 5% by 20254 baseline.
Target met and retired in 2022
Rethink business travel and work-from- • Developed global dashboard to track travel-related emissions by category.
home policies to reduce transportation-
• Implemented sustainable travel guidance at time of booking and initiated
related emissions by 25% by 20255
sourcing program to select more sustainable travel options.
• Launched Upgrading to Sustainable Travel campaigns for colleague awareness.
• Launched Empowering Flexibility training to people leaders as part of our continued
focus to enable remote work, while harnessing the value of in-person collaboration
and balancing opportunities to reduce colleague commuting emissions.
1 Target language adjusted to renewable electricity from renewable energy in 2021 Sustainability Report
to align with RE100 commitment
2 Renewable electricity is aligned to our RE100 commitment and is the proportion of renewable electricity
relative to total Scope 2 electricity use
3 Renewable energy includes the proportion of renewable electricity, other renewable heating/cooling and
biofuels use relative to total Scope 1 and 2 energy use
4 Based on 2019 baseline. Energy intensity is gigajoules per $1 million in revenue.
5 Based on 2019 baseline.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 51
Carbon Neutral Workstreams
Our Journey to
1 Reduce Emissions
Carbon Neutrality
Optimize use of utlity systems to minimize energy waste
Design and embed energy efficiency and
Climate change is a significant global issue To achieve carbon neutrality, we are focused decarbonization into capital projects
with wide-ranging impacts. At Zoetis, we on reducing emissions by: 1) driving energy
have committed to reducing greenhouse gas efficiency at our sites, 2) transitioning our fleet to
emissions in our own operations and managing more fuel-efficient, hybrid and electric vehicles
our climate risks because it matters to the and utilizing biofuels where available, and 3)
2 Minimize Fleet Emissions
communities we serve, our colleagues, our powering our operations with clean renewable
customers, the health of animals and those electricity. We are proud of our achievements
who care for them around the world. to date. In the very first year of setting these Reduce fleet emissions by increasing the use of
commitments, we have demonstrated clear electric, hybrid and more fuel-efficient vehicles
In 2022, we set a goal to be carbon neutral
progress in developing and implementing our
in our own operations by 2030, with a focus
roadmap to carbon neutrality. Within the next few
on our Scope 1 and 2 emissions from our
years, while our business continues to grow, we
manufacturing and R&D operations, office locations
expect to achieve reductions in our emissions as
and fleet vehicles. We also accelerated our
we realize gains from current emissions reduction
3 Source Renewable
commitment to source 100% renewable energy
programs and investments. These include large-
in our operations by 20 years—with a goal of
scale energy efficiency projects at our R&D Electricity
achieving our RE100 commitment by 2030.
and manufacturing sites and power purchase
agreements that will account for approximately
Source 100% renewable electricity in all our operations
100% of our U.S. electricity needs. In 2022, even
as our revenue increased compared with 2021
and we continued to expand our manufacturing
footprint with new buildings in Kalamazoo, Mich.
and Lincoln, Neb., we successfully limited our 4 Purchase Carbon Offsets
electricity usage growth to just over 1% for the year.
Bridge remaining emissions with the
purchase of carbon offsets
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 52
Our Journey to Carbon Neutrality
2024+
2020 • Continue expanding 2030
our climate reporting.
2022
• Realize carbon reductions
• Measured our energy Target year
from projects on carbon
and carbon footprint for
neutral roadmap and
for achieving
2017, 2018 and 2019. • Achieved 14.7% renewable electricity.
identify new projects.
carbon
• Set our energy intensity • Exceeded our target to reduce energy
target (5% reduction by intensity by 5%, with a 13.5% reduction.
neutrality and
2025 from 2019 baseline).
• Committed to carbon neutrality in our own
100% renewable
• First ESG Review operations by 2030 (scope 1 and 2).
and TCFD issued. electricity
• Brought our RE100 commitment
forward to 2030.
2021 • Developed our carbon neutral roadmap.
2023
• Completed an energy and carbon projects
assessment of our top 10 sites, accounting
• Committed to
for approximately 90% of our total carbon
RE100 by 2050. • Expand external
footprint – identified > 100 projects.
reporting on climate.
• Began formal tracking
• Initiated new sustainability
of our energy • Drive completion of key
technology platform to improve
reduction projects. projects on our carbon
data collection and reporting.
neutral roadmap.
• Signed first VPPA for solar
• Installed four onsite solar arrays.
power in North America. • Anticipate signing
• Launched initiative to transition to renewable
second VPPA to source
• First CDP Climate
bioethanol fuel in our Brazilian Fleet.
all electricity for North
submission.
America from renewables
as early as 2027.
• Launching Greening
US Fleet initiative.
Reduce Emissions
Driving energy efficiency is a key lever toward Alongside building a robust roadmap to achieve
achievement of our climate goals. Therefore, our carbon neutral target, Zoetis has continued
our approach to reducing GHG emissions first to leverage the energy efficiency programs we
centers on increasing the energy efficiency of launched in 2020. We implemented a set of energy
our operations. We are optimizing our utility efficiency projects in 2022, which led to 51,150
systems and manufacturing equipment at gigajoules (GJ) of energy savings (equivalent
our sites, as well as investing in equipment to 1.4% of our energy footprint) and a collective
and design to embed energy efficiency and GHG emissions abatement of 4,442 metric tons of
decarbonization into our capital projects. CO e. At our manufacturing site in Lincoln, Neb.
2
(2nd largest user of electricity in our network),
In 2020, we set a target to reduce our energy
we replaced an old chilled-water distribution
intensity by 5% from our 2019 baseline.
system with a high-efficiency unit resulting in a
Through our ongoing energy efficiency
3.3% reduction in the site’s electricity footprint,
programs, we achieved this target in 2021
a carbon abatement of 903 metric tons of CO e,
2 and, going forward, we will focus on achieving
and improved reliability and performance. This
carbon neutrality in our own operations.
was the first phase of a multi-year initiative at the
site. We are also piloting an energy management We conducted energy and carbon assessments in
program at our Rathdrum, Ireland site which will
2022 at our top 10 sites, which account for 88% of
allow us to proactively monitor, measure and
total energy footprint. The assessment helped us
manage energy reduction and use our learnings
identify more than 100 energy efficiency projects.
as a model to expand across our network.
We are beginning in 2023 with an initial focus
on optimizing utility operations and minimizing
excess energy consumption. Looking ahead, we
will shift to large utility retrofit projects, followed by
heat recovery and electrification projects as part
of a multi-year program of capital investments.
Case
Study
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 53
Managing Energy Consumption in Catania, Italy
Across Zoetis, our colleagues are the driving
force behind Driven to Care. That is why we
empower them to identify ways to make our
operations more efficient. Colleagues at our
Catania, Italy fermentation facility led a multi-
year green energy initiative that resulted in
an annual carbon abatement of 12%. This
included the installation of Zoetis’s first
”The investments that
trigeneration unit, two new energy efficient
chillers, LED lighting throughout the site and have been made at our
photovoltaic solar panels, which generate
Catania, Italy site are
enough electricity to meet 7% of the site’s
emblematic of Zoetis’
needs. Further, by replacing the chillers,
the site is now able to use a refrigerant gas aspiration to be the most
that has a 99.5% reduced global warming
sustainable animal health
potential compared to the former refrigerant.
company. We installed
a new trigeneration
plant that will efficiently
produce electricity,
heat and cooling from
natural gas, and we also
installed solar panels
that will produce around
1600 MWh per year of
renewable energy.”
Vincenzo ludicelli
Site Lead, Catania, Italy
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 54
Greenhouse Gas Emissions (metric tons CO e)1, 2
2
Minimize Fleet Emissions
2022 2021 2020
Scope 1 emissions – total3,4 112,577 101,498 77,694
Manufacturing, R&D and offices 91,621 81,477 77,694 Reducing fleet emissions is an important part of Despite this challenge, in 2022, we deployed
our strategy to achieve carbon neutrality by 2030. 106 new hybrid vehicles and 38 new electric
Fleet 20,956 20,021 Not available Our fleet of just over 3,800 vehicles across 40 vehicles in the EU, which now account for 27%
countries accounts for 6.9% of our total Scope 1 and of our European fleet. Additionally, in Brazil,
Scope 2 emissions – market-based5 190,609 186,710 Not available
2 emissions. In 2022, electric vehicles represented we increased the use of renewable bioethanol
1.2% of our total fleet and hybrids accounted for 10%. as a fuel source by 370% resulting in a carbon
Scope 2 emissions – location-based 226,423 227,904 243,576
abatement of 2,145 metric tons of CO e. In 2022,
2
To advance our efforts in managing these
bioethanol accounted for 86% of the fuel used
Scope 1 and 2 emissions6 303,186 288,208 321,270
emissions, we established a global workstream
by our Brazilian fleet compared to 27% in 2021.
Scope 1 and 2 emissions to support the transition of our fleet to higher
37.5 36.8 47.9
intensity (per $1MM revenue) efficiency vehicles and to accelerate the
deployment of hybrid and electric vehicles in
locations where the supporting infrastructure is
1 GHG emissions were calculated using the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard.
available. While we have accelerated our progress
2 GHG emissions and emissions intensity from 2020 and 2021 were recalculated and restated to account for the acquisition
of a new manufacturing site in Rutherford, Australia in 2022. to minimize fleet emissions, we are also working
3 In 2021, Zoetis added fleet vehicles to our Scope 1 footprint. Adding fleet emissions to the Scope 1 footprint resulted in with the global challenges of limited hybrid and
an additional 20,021 metric tons of CO e being added to the company’s 2021 Scope 1 emissions. Data was not retroactively electric vehicle availability. We will continue
2
added to 2020 as data is not available. Emissions from Zoetis agricultural activity have been added to the manufacturing,
to prioritize our purchasing of these vehicles
R&D and offices line. Data related to herd emissions and breakdown of manure waste is reported in 2022 and has been
based on availability, while also identifying ”I am extremely proud
retroactively added to 2021 emissions. Herd emissions data is not available for 2020. GHG emissions from a waste solvent
incinerator at our Rathdrum site has been added to the footprint in 2022. Data has also been retroactively added for 2020 methods to reduce fleet emissions through of the Brazilian team
and 2021.
additional measures such as renewable fuels.
for their incredibly fast
4 GHG emissions from Zoetis owned and leased offices where data was available (accounting for 70% of our owned and
leased office space) was added to our carbon footprint in 2021. Zoetis offices account for less than 0.5% of the 2021
uptake of our renewable
emissions footprint. Data was retroactively added for 2020. Energy data from the offices is estimated based on the square
area of the office when energy invoices are not available. GHG emissions data from Zoetis office locations has been fuel program. This
expanded to include more than 95% of the office locations for 2022, but data for these additional locations is not available
willingness from our
for 2020 and 2021. Data from 19 Zoetis reference laboratories have been added to the emissions footprint in 2022. This has
resulted 803 metric tons of CO2e being added to our emissions footprint. Emissions data for reference laboratories is not
colleagues to choose
available for 2020 and 2021.
5 In 2021, we commenced using market-based emissions factors for purchased electricity. GHGs from imported electricity more sustainable
are calculated using the GHG Protocol Scope 2 guidance requiring dual reporting using two emissions factors for each site:
transportation options is
market-based and location-based. Location-based factors are the grid average emissions factor for the country, or region in
the US, where a site is located. Market-based factors are specific to Zoetis purchasing, taking account of the residual energy a key factor in reaching
mix a site is sourcing electricity from.
our goals.”
6 For the purposes of reporting total emissions, 2021 and 2022 combine Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 emissions.
For 2020, we have combined Scope 1 with location-based Scope 2 emissions. Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 emissions
are the basis of our carbon neutrality commitment, and we will be using these metrics to measure our performance. Paula Diniz Oliveira
Global Head of Fleet
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 55
Source Renewable
31%
Electricity
of our manufacturing
sites operate with
As part of our carbon neutrality goal, we have We are making clear progress to power our 100% renewable ”We are proud to have
committed to sourcing 100% renewable electricity sites with renewable electricity. Nine of our
completed phase two of
by 2030 and joined the RE100 initiative. We plan 29 manufacturing sites operate with 100% electricity
to achieve these commitments by entering in renewable electricity and we continue to power an energy management
power purchase agreements to procure renewable our offices in Zaventem, Belgium and Dublin,
project at our R&D site in
electricity in regions and markets where it is Ireland—the company’s largest offices outside
India. The installation of
available and through the installation of on-site of the U.S.—plus four commercial operations
renewable electricity at our suitable locations. sites in Norway with renewable electricity. 779 rooftop solar panels
Further, we continue to monitor the renewable
During 2022, we also expanded our investment in is expected to result in a
energy industry to understand new opportunities
on-site renewable energy with four sites (Catania,
10% savings in the site’s
to help us meet our renewable electricity targets.
Italy, Olot, Spain, Durham, N.C., and Mumbai, India)
electricity requirements
In 2021, we signed a 15-year VPPA with Vesper completing projects to install photovoltaic solar
Energy to deliver 40 MW or approximately 33% of arrays. In total, the new solar arrays generated and an approximate
our U.S. electricity requirements starting in 2025. 383 GJ of solar electricity during 2022. These annual abatement of 400
We anticipate finalizing a second VPPA opportunity are the first large scale solar arrays our company
metric tons of CO e.”
to enable sourcing of 100% renewable electricity for has invested in, and we will continue to identify
2
our current U.S. electricity needs as early as 2027. new opportunities for onsite renewables.
Shrikant Nadpurohit
Manager, EHS & Engineering, VMRD
14.7%
RE100
RE100 is a global initiative bringing together
the world’s most influential businesses with
renewable electricity
commitments to source 100% renewable
electricity and shift away from nonrenewable
energy. Through this initiative, Zoetis
commits to source 100% renewable energy
across our global operations by 2030.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 56
Reducing Travel-Related Water and Waste
Emissions
Water We also consider the water needs of our locations
and assess the impact of our operations on the
As an animal health company, being good
local environment. In 2022, approximately 88%
stewards of the environment is important to us, the
As part of our Driven to Care strategy, we set air routings, opting for rail versus air travel where
of our water withdrawals are within areas of
communities where we operate and our customers.
an aspiration to rethink our business travel possible, and choosing a more efficient car rental
low- to medium-water stress. For sites located
We recognize that some of our manufacturing
and work-from-home policies to reduce our option or a sustainable hotel choice. Additionally,
in high-water stress regions—such as Olot,
processes can be water and resource intensive.
transportation-related emissions by 25%. We through our annual travel sourcing process, Zoetis
Spain and Catania, Italy—we are developing
Therefore, we are focused on making our operations
refined the aspiration by committing to a target continues to enhance our travel partner selections
projects that will allow us to treat and reuse
more efficient, identifying opportunities to recycle
year of 2025, using 2019 as our baseline. As to ensure more sustainable options are available
water onsite, significantly reducing the amount
and repurpose our wastewater, and reducing the
we build on our understanding of our emissions to our colleagues. As Zoetis continues to monitor
of hazardous wastewater sent for treatment
amount of and responsibly managing waste.
footprint, we will report on the metrics that we use the impact of these changes, we remain committed
and reducing the site's overall water needs.
to measure our progress. In 2022, we continued to reducing non-essential travel and focusing on
To reduce water use, we integrated water
to advance our efforts and implemented several business-critical travel, adjusting our program These conservation measures are important as we
conservation considerations in our new
actions to reduce our travel-related emissions, and policies to meet our travel aspirations. continue to grow our business. We recognize that
manufacturing building in Durham, N.C. We
while further understanding travel patterns and with this growth, our water intake has increased
installed a rainwater collection and redistribution
As we advance our business travel emissions
the corresponding environmental impact. and water recycling has decreased. We are
system that allows us to meet all of the sanitary
reduction efforts, we are also focusing on the
continuing to explore opportunities across our
water requirements with recycled rainwater. From
We developed a business intelligence program many benefits that can be associated with remote
manufacturing network to increase water efficiency.
August to December 2022, the site repurposed
and dashboards to identify key emissions work—including a reduced environmental footprint.
14,000 gallons of water for use in sanitary systems,
components with the ability to delve deep into In 2022, we continued to focus on enabling remote
equivalent to 3.4% of site water requirements.
trip and location-based travel patterns. In total, work, while harnessing the value of in-person
domestic and international air travel account for collaboration and connection. We work together
82% of our business travel emissions, followed with our senior leaders to define flexible working
by hotel stays at 13% and the remaining 5% from models within their organizations to ensure that we
car rental/rail transportation. With this information, meet our business needs as well as support our
coupled with detailed itinerary analysis, we colleagues’ well-being and work-life balance, with
launched an Upgrading to Sustainable Travel many teams combining virtual and in-office work.
campaign to promote sustainability awareness Where possible, we will balance opportunities to
across our colleagues and influence their travel reduce employee commuting emissions, while
booking decisions. In addition to the awareness ensuring we nurture our culture and continue to
campaign, we incorporated trip guidance at time build community through both intentional in-person
of booking into our global travel agency and its collaboration and virtual teaming opportunities.
reservation tools. Colleagues are provided with
information to make more informed decisions,
such as selecting direct and lower GHG emitting
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 57
Pharmaceuticals in the Environment We focus on environmentally responsible Waste
11%
manufacturing of antibiotics and other medicines
Zoetis is committed to minimizing the Minimizing our waste footprint and reducing
that may pose a risk to the environment if
environmental impact of our products and the impact on our environment is important to
not handled properly. To this end, we have
this includes actively working to mitigate the us. Across our combined hazardous and non-
implemented a PiE program to perform detailed
presence of pharmaceuticals in the environment hazardous waste categories, our overall waste
environmental risk assessments (ERA) at our reduction in routine
(PiE). The primary source of pharmaceuticals footprint dropped by 55 tons, by 0.2%, compared
manufacturing sites and key suppliers. These
entering the environment from our products is to 2021. In 2022, we focused heavily on finding
operational non-
assessments include a detailed evaluation of
through animal use of medicine where a minimal opportunities to reduce the volumes of non-
how active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) are
amount is naturally excreted by the animals. hazardous waste sent to landfill. We accelerated hazardous waste
managed throughout the manufacturing processes
To a lesser extent, pharmaceuticals can enter efforts to improve waste segregation and
at a site to ensure that wastewater discharges
the environment during the manufacturing recycle waste resulting in a reduction of our non- compared to 2021
meet safe emissions limits. The process includes
process or due to improper disposal. hazardous waste to landfill by 831 tons (17%).
an assessment of where APIs have the potential
As part of our product development process, to be released to wastewater and action planning In line with overall company growth and
17%
we conduct an extensive risk assessment that for those risk areas, to ensure implementation manufacturing output across our biologics and
evaluates the environmental fate and potential of best practices such as materials handling and fermentation network, generation of hazardous
effects of products which, when used in animals, equipment cleaning procedures designed to waste has increased. We are continuing to evaluate
can result in significant environmental exposure. mitigate the risk of potential releases. Optimization opportunities to reduce the volumes of hazardous
reduction in quantity
We then take steps to mitigate any potential risks and implementation of the most effective pollution waste we generate. In 2022 we focused our
identified during this process. In 2022, we also prevention and control measures are supported efforts on maximizing the recovery and reuse
of non-hazardous
established a Sustainability Hub in R&D, a team by training programs for site management and of our hazardous waste streams and added a
dedicated to coordinating innovation to reduce personnel as well as by developing analytical new metric to track the quantity of hazardous
waste sent to landfill
the impacts of our products on the environment methods in effluent for the high priority APIs. waste that is reused for energy recovery.
through evaluating green chemistry alternatives, compared to 2021
We are continuing to leverage Operational
formulation innovation, and innovative approaches
Excellence best practice to design energy
to facilitate the sustainability of our customers.
reductions into our processes. Our fermentation
We also view our commitment to investing in new
operation in Chicago Heights, Ill., re-designed
products to predict, prevent and detect disease
and optimized part of the equipment cleaning
early, reducing the need to use products such as
process which resulted in a 5% reduction
antibiotics to ensure animal health and welfare.
of their hazardous waste footprint.
77% of hazardous waste was recycled, reused
or incinerated for energy recovery in 2022,
compared to 72% in 2021, with 11,420,528 kg
of waste being used for energy recovery in 2022
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 58
Environmental Rethink our Packaging
Management Program
ASPIRATION
Rethink our packaging to reduce its environmental footprint
Our global environmental, health and safety (EHS) To ensure adherence to our EHS management TARGET 2022 PROGRESS
management principles ensure that all Zoetis sites system, we also conduct corporate audits
achieve and maintain consistently high levels of of our operating sites. In addition, two of our Integrate sustainability considerations • Established a sustainable packaging guidance
into all new packaging designs
EHS performance. Our principles are set globally sites—Catania, Italy and Suzhou, China— document for suppliers to ensure new product
and implemented locally across functions. Each are ISO 14001 certified. Key aspects of our packaging takes into account environmental
considerations. Added Packaging Council
of our manufacturing, R&D and logistics sites are EHS management system include:
review as a formal step in the product
required to implement the Zoetis EHS management
• Compliance Management development process to ensure sustainability
system, as defined by our EHS Policy Standard,
considerations in new product development.
and to continue to advance it over time. Our sites • Risk Assessment
complete periodic self-audits, checklists and • Continued to improve packaging materials
• Objective Setting
sustainability and advance packaging
inspections, and review applicable environmental
reduction initiatives and take-back
requirements at least annually to ensure compliance • Competency and Training
programs in our global markets.
with environmental laws and regulations.
• Employee Engagement and Communications
• Selected a packaging specification management
• Management of Change
system which will advance our ability to track and
report data on our packaging materials, allowing
• Monitoring
reporting and identification of opportunities for
• Emergency Preparedness additional areas of focus. This system will be integrated
in 2023, with data being populated in 2023-24.
• Self-Audit
Zoetis is committed to improving our products’ Our colleagues share our commitment. Every day,
environmental impact throughout their life we’re working together to innovate packaging
cycle—from research and development to post- systems that not only maintain the safety and quality
consumer waste management. We recognize that of our products and provide convenience for our
further action is needed to ensure our innovative, customers but also result in less waste and reduced
industry-leading solutions are delivered sustainably emissions at every stage of the product pathway.
and have committed to include sustainability To guide these efforts, in 2022, we developed
considerations in all new packaging designs. our Sustainable Product Pathway, a framework for
considering product impacts across the life cycle.
Through this initiative, Zoetis will invest in solutions
to optimize end-to-end product sustainability in
ways that also enhance our customers’ experience.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 59
To help guide our packaging efforts, we formed a Global Packaging Sustainability Improvement
Zoetis Sustainable
Packaging Council in 2020. This cross-functional
In 2022, we continued to take meaningful steps
team evaluates the safety, quality, sustainability, cost
Product Pathway to reduce the environmental impact of our
and customer experience considerations of all new
packaging in markets around the world.
packaging designs. In 2022, the Packaging Council
Products have an impact on the environment • In Japan, we began transitioning our labeling
reviewed proposed packaging improvements for a
1
at each stage of their life cycle—from of prescription veterinary medicines to
wide variety of product types, including diagnostics,
manufacturing to freight to end-of-life label data provision via a QR code. This will
Research and vaccines, nutritional products, antimicrobials and
disposal. Understanding these impacts is streamline our process and reduce packaging
parasiticides, and adopted guidelines to expand
Development
crucial to achieving a more sustainable future. use by an estimated 18,000 lbs per year.
the scope of submissions across the business. This
resulted in new packaging designs and new more • In seven markets, including the U.S., Canada and
Our Sustainable Product Pathway initiative
sustainable packaging materials approvals which China, we removed cotton from our Rimadyl®
will inform sustainable product and packaging
will be brought to market in the next few years. As chewable products packaging, reducing cotton
design for all new Zoetis products and we’ve
we drive our sustainability goals, the responsibility use by an estimated 6,000 lbs per year.
2
identified key decision-making stages early in
of the Packaging Council may further expand. • In the U.S., we transitioned Cerenia® to a recycled
the research and development process where
Manufacturing paper pouch while reducing its packaging
primary, secondary, and tertiary packaging In 2022, we created a sustainable packaging
footprint by an estimated 55 tons per year.
design and materials can be explicitly guidance document for suppliers to provide
packaging specification guidelines for all products
evaluated. Integration of these considerations
delivered to Zoetis. Developed with oversight by the
early in the process allows sustainable
Packaging Council and in partnership with business
packaging design and testing alignment
3
functions that will be most impacted—commercial,
with data acquisition, capital planning and
manufacturing, and research and development—the
launch timings to ensure a smooth outcome. Supply Chain
specifications outlined represent materials, attributes
At each of these five stages of the and formats that are strongly recommended and
Sustainable Product Pathway, we will support our packaging improvements. While ”By not only choosing more
will work to identify focus areas for the specifications are not mandatory, we will require
sustainable materials for
improvement and investment, as well 4 that our suppliers engage with us before delivering
our packaging but also
as integration of sustainability thinking packaging that deviates from the materials and
and considerations. To help identify key Customer formats outlined within the guidance document. rethinking the way we
areas for improvement, we will use a life Experience administer our products
Sustainable Packaging Partnerships
cycle approach in broad alignment with
to animals, we can provide
Zoetis is a member of several industry groups
life cycle assessment principles outlined
driving improvement in sustainability, including customer-focused,
by ISO 14040:14044: Environmental
the American Chemical Society, Green Chemistry
pioneering solutions which
Management - Life Cycle Assessment.
Institute, Pharmaceutical Round Table and the
5
also have a lighter impact
Sustainable Packaging Coalition. We’re also a
on the environment and
Post-Consumer member of the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain
Initiative, which aims to drive excellence in improve animal welfare.”
safety, environmental and social outcomes
across global pharmaceutical supply chains. Dr. Kristen Baxter
Senior Manager, Sustainability Integration
Location Sustainability Teams
ASPIRATION
Improve the sustainability in our locations
TARGET 2022 PROGRESS
Stand-up “Location Sustainability” All major sites have sustainability teams. Stood up
teams in major sites Market Green Team with regional representatives
from international commercial business units. To
drive progress, the Market Green Team shares ideas,
actions and education, collaborates on projects, and
shares best practices for market-level sustainability
actions. They leverage internal collaboration tools,
including internal social media platforms,
for broad reach. These team members also act
as ambassadors to the markets in their regions and
help advance sustainability actions for market-level
efforts supported by the Zoetis Global Sustainability
Team. This progress builds on our 2021 efforts to
strengthen colleague engagement on sustainability
globally, which included a Driven to Care learning
series and an open virtual community for colleagues
to share their personal sustainability efforts.
ydutS
esaC
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 60
New Zealand and Australia Take-Back Program
As dairy farmers have increasingly utilised The success of the program was driven by
Teatseal/Orbeseal to prevent mastitis in their the relationships between farmers and their
dry cows and heifers, we have seen global local veterinary clinics, which served as
growth in this product, especially in markets collection points. In 2022, Zoetis leveraged
in Oceania. Tons of emptied plastic tubes— those relationships in even more communities,
waste from protecting cows against developing launching a Teatseal syringe take-back
mastitis—has been directed to landfills during recycling program in Australia and expanding
dry-off season every year. The wide geographic the program in New Zealand to include
spread of farms can make it challenging additional packaging for livestock vaccines,
to initiate successful agricultural recycling tissue sampling unit spacers, and Rimadyl and
programs. However, that’s exactly what we Apoquel medicine bottles. In New Zealand we
did in 2021, with our inaugural Teatseal take- are now offering recycling for 50% of livestock
back program in New Zealand, resulting in the product lines. In 2022, 60 clinics participated
recycling of 1.6 million tubes, approximately in our recycling program, a 27% increase
30% of those used in the market in its first year. from 2021, which resulted in the recycling of
just over 2.1 million Teatseal/Orbeseal tubes,
equivalent to approximately 18.74 tons, a 35%
increase from 2021, while Australia recycled
1,170 lbs. of tubes in its inaugural year.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 61
Appendix
SASB and
ESG Index
This index provides information on
relevant environmental, social and
governance (ESG) metrics and
our disclosure of the Sustainability
Accounting Standards Board
(SASB) standards for the
Health Care – Biotechnology &
Pharmaceuticals industry. As an
animal health company, some
of the SASB standards are not
appliable to our operations. Where
appropriate, we seek to provide
comparable disclosures relevant
to our business. We supplemented
the table with additional
narrative about our programs.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 62
Activity Metrics
METRIC SASB CODE 2022 2021 2020
Number of patients treated HC-BP-000.A Not applicable for animal health.
Number of drugs (1) in portfolio and (2) in HC-BP-000.B 1) A s disclosed in our Form 10-K, we have approximately 300 comprehensive product lines.
research and development (Phases 1-3)
2) P hases 1-3 are not applicable for animal health. For competitive reasons, we are not reporting number of products in R&D.
Revenue – $8.080B $7.776B $6.675B
Full-time equivalent – Approximately 13,800 Approximately 12,100 Approximately 11,300
6,900 in U.S. and 6,900 5,900 in U.S. and 6,200 in other jurisdictions 5,300 in U.S. and 6,000 in other jurisdictions
in other jurisdictions
Global Manufacturing Sites – 29 28 29
R&D investments (expense) – $539M $508M $463M
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 63
Safety of Clinical Trial Participants
METRIC SASB CODE DISCLOSURE
Discussion, by world region, of management HC-BP-210a.1 As an animal health company, our clinical trials involve animals. With that in mind, we refer to owners of animals in the following descriptions:
process for ensuring quality and patient safety
Oversight of clinical research organization’s quality and safety systems
during clinical trials
Our quality and safety programs for clinical research include standardized operating procedures (SOPs) for study conduct, training and
qualification of personnel, and audits of contract research organizations (CROs), clinical processes, investigator sites and study documentation.
Discussion of management process for CROs
All pivotal/non-pivotal clinical research is appropriately monitored by scientific staff. Additionally, CROs, which are pivotal to clinical research,
are vetted by the quality assurance program and include legal oversight and third-party risk assessment, if necessary.
Discussion around nature and terms of monetary incentives used by the CROs
Costs for each study are allocated on a study-by-study basis and based on work conducted or milestones reached—for example, a veterinary
surgeon (Investigator) and owner payment for each visit completed or investigator payment for reaching target number of successfully enrolled
cases.
Discussion of process for obtaining informed consent from participants
Owner consent is documented either in an Owner Consent document or by signature on the Protocol when the Investigator owns the animals
or the CRO owns the animals and the Investigator is acting as their agent.
List of all clinical trials that were terminated for failure to follow good clinical practices standards
None in the last three years.
List of all clinical trials terminated, whether the decision was made by investigators or study sponsor, and whether it was made with
or without the input of a data monitoring committee.
Multiple studies have been cancelled or terminated due to project-specific reasons (technical/commercial) over the past three years. No studies
have been cancelled and/or terminated due to safety reasons or due to the decision of an internal data monitoring committee.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 64
METRIC SASB CODE DISCLOSURE
Number of Food and Drug Administration HC-BP-210a.2 No FDA Form 483s from Sponsor Inspections have been received over the last three years for our clinical program in animal health.
(FDA) Sponsor Inspections related to clinical
trial management and pharmacovigilance that
resulted in: (1) Voluntary Action Indicated (VAI)
and (2) Official Action Indicated (OAI)
Total amount of monetary losses as a result of HC-BP-210a.3 We have not, to date, incurred any monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with clinical trials. Any future material losses would
legal proceedings associated with clinical trials be publicly disclosed in our SEC filings as required.
in developing countries
Ensuring animal well-being in clinical trials – For each study involving client-owned animals, we identify an appropriately experienced Sponsor Representative to act on our behalf as the
Sponsor, and to be ultimately accountable for all aspects of study execution, including those of ethical conduct. This requirement is defined within
study type-specific SOPs, including requirements for the study to be conducted both in accordance with our Policy on Animal Care and Welfare
and with relevant local or national regulatory requirements. Our global Animal Care and Ethics Council has a guideline for clinical studies that
outlines further requirements for ethical conduct, including the need for written contracts, written informed consent, an existing veterinary client
patient relationship (VCPR) and prior ethical review. This framework of requirements, in conjunction with the Veterinary Medicine Research and
Development (VMRD) managerial line structure, gives robust responsibility for, and assurance of, ethical conduct in any study involving client-
owned animals.
All studies involving client-owned animals are reviewed by a panel of objective experts in accordance with our Policy on Animal Care and
Welfare. The requirement for ethical review and conduct of such clinical studies is further defined within a specific Zoetis global Animal Care
and Ethics Council that also indicates that site-specific committees are responsible for such review. This requirement for prior ethical review for
all studies involving client-owned animals is also reinforced within VMRD study type-specific study conduct SOPs.
Only qualified personnel conduct our studies, following appropriate SOPs and a training system. For pivotal studies, our quality assurance system
includes audits of CROs, clinical processes, investigator sites and study documentation.
We have an obligation to monitor studies on a regular basis to ensure protocol adherence. Beyond that, we have a regulatory obligation to report
all adverse events through the study report if an investigational product is used. If an approved veterinary product is used in a study, issues
are reported within strict timelines through the Zoetis Global Pharmacovigilance (PV) group and would be reported to regulatory authorities
as applicable, including outcomes, violations and corrective actions. PV reporting requirements are determined by legislation and agency
requirements, including frequency of reporting, timing of reporting and documentation of adverse events.
For additional information, see the Animal Welfare and Care section of this report.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 65
Access to Medicine
METRIC SASB CODE DISCLOSURE
Description of actions and initiatives to HC-BP-240a.1 The Access to Medicines Index is for human health and not relevant to Zoetis as an animal health company. See the Access to Veterinary Care in
promote access to health care products for Emerging Market section to learn about our efforts to promote access to our products.
priority diseases and in priority countries as
defined by the Access to Medicine Index
List of products on the WHO List of HC-BP-240a.2 None of our products are on the WHO List of Prequalified Medicinal Products.
Prequalified Medicinal Products as part of its
Prequalification of Medicines Programme (PQP)
Affordability and Pricing
METRIC SASB CODE DISCLOSURE
Number of settlements of Abbreviated HC-BP-240b.1 The Abbreviated New Drug Application process applies to human medical products and is not applicable to animal health. The animal health
New Drug Application (ANDA) litigation equivalent legislation is the Abbreviated New Animal Drug Application process, for which Zoetis made no payments or provisions to delay the
that involved payments and/or provisions entry of generic products in 2022.
to delay bringing an authorized generic
product to market for a defined time period
Percentage change in: (1) average list price HC-BP-240b.2 We price our products globally, according to the competitive market and how our customers value the benefits they receive. From 2021 to 2022,
and (2) average net price across U.S. product our price growth was approximately 3%. Price growth was approximately 1% from 2020 to 2021, and approximately 2% from 2019 to 2020.
portfolio compared to previous year
Percentage change in: (1) list price and HC-BP-240b.3 While we are not reporting percentage change in list price, we are disclosing that no single product materially contributed to our price growth
(2) net price of product with largest in 2022.
increase compared to previous year
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 66
Product Safety
METRIC SASB CODE DISCLOSURE
List of products listed in the FDA HC-BP-250a.1 Zoetis closely monitors the FDA MedWatch Safety Alerts database. In addition to monitoring the Medwatch database for Human Health Devices,
MedWatch Safety Alerts for Human we actively monitor the veterinary equivalent public adverse event reporting databases, such as the FDA publicly released openFDA website that
Medical Products database publishes all FDA received complaints, whether reported by consumers or industry. These databases are updated on a regular basis by the FDA
and monitored by Global Pharmacovigilance.
In Europe, the European Medicines Agency (EMA) publishes information on all of the adverse events globally that have been reported to the EMA
as well as information on recent changes to labels for Centrally Authorized Products: information on nationally authorized products is published
by individual European Country Authorities.
Number of fatalities associated with HC-BP-250a.2 All Zoetis adverse events are collected and entered into the Zoetis global enterprise-wide adverse event database. We report all adverse events
products as reported in the FDA as appropriate to global regulatory agencies in accordance with reporting requirements. Major regulatory agencies such as FDA and EMA publish
Adverse Event Reporting System reported information on their applicable websites for animal health pharmaceuticals and biologicals.
Number of recalls issued, total units recalled HC-BP-250a.3 Product safety and quality are our top priority. We maintain a robust quality system with harmonized processes and procedures, in compliance
with external regulatory requirements and standards.
We conduct investigations when deviations, out-of-specification and/or failure of our manufacturing processes to meet our quality standards
occur. We also investigate variance from current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP) and other applicable regulations.
Zoetis has a process to assess quality defects and safety issues and determine whether a market action such as a recall is required. Any such
incident is investigated and assessed by subject matter experts, pharmacovigilance/safety experts, quality management and regulatory teams.
As applicable, market actions such as recalls are executed as agreed with the relevant competent authorities.
Zoetis initiated three voluntary recalls in 2022. None of them were global recalls. A recall on one serial of Stockguard 5® vaccine was executed in
the Japan market on 1,275 units. One packaged lot of FluSure XP3® vaccine was recalled in the Mexico market on 833 units. Two packaged lots
of Cerenia® Injectable Solution in the Italy and Greece market on 879 and 33 units, respectively. Corrective and preventative actions were taken
to prevent future occurrences. Zoetis was not subject to any FDA requested or mandated recalls in 2022.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 67
METRIC SASB CODE DISCLOSURE
Total amount of product accepted HC-BP-250a.4 Our products are high-turnover products with very limited take back and reuse. We take back products for disposal in line with legal requirements
for take-back, reuse, or disposal in each country.
Direct Customers in the U.S.
To manage expired products, we provide our direct clinic customers with options to properly dispose of expired products:
• Return for Destruction & Credit: We provide pre-paid shipping labels so veterinary clinics may return expired product to our U.S. Logistics
Returns Center. Once onsite, returned product is inspected, documented and ultimately destroyed following applicable waste
management regulations.
• Credit & Destroy on Site: As an alternative to physically returning expired product, veterinary clinics can destroy via their own medical
waste streams.
Distribution Customers in the U.S.
Distribution partners can receive credit for expired products, provided it is shipped to our U.S. Logistics Return Center. Destruction is conducted
following all applicable waste management regulations. In addition to handling destructions from distribution partner warehouse-related Zoetis
products that expire, these distribution customers will accept returns from their own veterinary clinic customers and isolate Zoetis-sourced
products for return to us.
Consumers in the U.S.
Zoetis has been a long-standing member of the Pharmaceutical Product Stewardship Work Group (PPSWG), an external pharmaceutical
industry association with a significant focus on take-back and safe disposal of product. The PPSWG was formed to address the complexities
and uncertainties of new laws that govern the disposal of unused and unwanted pharmaceutical products. PPSWG members have developed a
framework for addressing these laws through active member engagement and MED-Project, a safe, effective, and compliant household medicines
and sharps take-back program, on behalf of its member companies. PPSWG’s mission is to provide infrastructure, guidance, and subject matter
expertise to support member compliance and improve awareness of existing pharmaceutical disposal options.
For Controlled Substances, all returns are processed through our warehouse specifically licensed with the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration
to handle Zoetis SKUs with a Controlled Substance classification.
International Customers
As a company that operates globally, our model for product returns and take-back differs by market and jurisdiction. Generally, in all markets we
have mechanisms to accept returns to our distribution center where they are inspected, documented and destroyed based on local requirements.
Typically, these processes are similar to our practices in the U.S., as described above.
Number of FDA enforcement actions taken HC-BP-250a.5 We regularly participate in health authority inspections to help ensure the highest quality in our manufacturing facilities. A total of five FDA
in response to violations of current Good inspections were completed in 2022. A Form 483 was issued during three of these inspections, which were classified as Voluntary Action
Manufacturing Practices (cGMP), by type Indicated and appropriately resolved. All inspections were satisfactory and allowed continuation of operations. No further FDA enforcement
actions were taken.
Furthermore, all corrective actions for observations have been accepted by the relevant authorities as a response to their inspections. Zoetis is
committed to ensuring quality and compliance for all our products in every market in which we sell them.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 68
METRIC SASB CODE DISCLOSURE
Product safety and quality program – With quality at the forefront of our commitments, Zoetis has established appropriate controls and processes for the manufacturing of our
products to ensure they are fit for their intended use, comply with the requirements of the Marketing Authorization, and demonstrate adequate
safety, quality and efficacy. A Quality Management System (QMS) also ensures that our products are of the quality required for their intended use
throughout the different stages of the product lifecycle.
The QMS also extends to the control and review of outsourced activities and quality of purchased materials including quality risk management
and oversight.
Our suppliers are qualified to determine the capability to provide materials that meet Zoetis standards. An ongoing evaluation process including
material testing, specification review and auditing is employed by Zoetis to ensure that the materials continue to meet our requirements.
Suppliers of outsourced activities are managed by Quality Agreements and ensure appropriate, periodic Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP)
and Quality Assurance training.
Our internal manufacturing sites and contract manufacturers are regularly audited by trained, qualified corporate auditors who evaluate the sites
for compliance to GMPs, the state of the QMS, and ensure our products demonstrate adequate safety, quality and efficacy.
A structured governance process is also in place to inform senior management about quality performance, escalation of quality issues,
compliance with internal and external requirements to facilitate decision making, quality objectives planning, and stratified investments to enable
continuous improvement programs at sites. Senior management is responsible for quality system governance through periodic quality council
reviews to ensure QMS continuous suitability and effectiveness.
A global Pharmacovigilance System is also in place for continuous monitoring of product safety and efficacy performance, signal detection,
and complaint trending.
Global Pharmacovigilance operates under a strict Corporate Policy for Adverse Event Reporting. This policy outlines the legal requirements with
which Zoetis must fully comply, regardless of specific local country adverse event reporting obligations. Further, we conduct annual, mandatory
Pharmacovigilance (PV) training for all Zoetis colleagues and contractors who conduct work for Zoetis to assure PV requirements are understood
and that we uphold our commitment to product safety, quality and reporting compliance.
In addition, product testing is described in the marketing authorization and technical dossiers approved by health authorities and is carried out
according to approved testing methods. The necessary and relevant product testing is conducted to control the quality of our products. Testing
is performed on each lot to support product release to markets. Product stability testing programs are also in place to monitor the quality of the
product over its shelf life.
Certifications
Our legal right to operate and sell our products is governed by licenses and/or certifications, depending on the products that we manufacture
and/or supply to markets. These are obtained through regulatory applications and inspections by the appropriate external authorities and
independent bodies.
Our sites have obtained 100% of the required licenses to operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations and certifications.
Some of our manufacturing sites also hold ISO quality management systems certifications. These include Griesheim, Germany and Union City,
California. (ISO 13485) and Farum, Denmark, Griesheim, Germany and San Diego, California. (ISO 9001).
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 69
Counterfeit Drugs
METRIC SASB CODE DISCLOSURE
Description of methods and technologies used HC-BP-260a.1 Counterfeits are identified through a combination of customer, field force, distributor alerts, customs alerts and online monitoring. Counterfeits
to maintain traceability of products throughout are confirmed through reviews of batch numbers, lot numbers, expiration dates and bar codes, along with an examination of label, packaging
the supply chain and prevent counterfeiting and product appearance. Lab testing may be done when other identification methods are not sufficient or when warranted per a risk-based
analysis. We participate in the International Trademark Association (INTA) and our Chief Counsel for Global Trademarks serves on the INTA In-
House Practitioner’s Committee and the INTA Healthcare & Pharmaceutical subgroup, which helps monitor and address ongoing threats.
Discussion of process for alerting customers HC-BP-260a.2 If there is a risk of harm or significant market penetration or a combination of the two, we will plan to send letters to distributors and end
and business partners of potential or known customers (veterinarians) or provide other alerts. We encourage all customers to buy through regular business channels from authorized
risks associated with counterfeit products distributors of Zoetis in order to ensure access to safe products and the Zoetis product guarantee.
Number of actions that led to raids, HC-BP-260a.3 Notification to legal or regulatory authorities depends on local requirements and specific cases. If local authorities require notification regarding
seizure, arrests and/or filing of criminal the existence of counterfeits, notification takes place. If notification is not required, but authorities are receptive to reports of counterfeits, we will
charges related to counterfeit products report counterfeits depending on the case (market saturation, type of product involved and whether detailed information or evidence is available).
When regulators and law enforcement accept such information, Zoetis is often not informed when raids, seizures, arrests and/or filing of criminal
charges take place.
Ethical Marketing
METRIC SASB CODE DISCLOSURE
Total amount of monetary losses as a HC-BP-270a.1 We have not to date incurred any monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with false marketing claims. Any future material
result of legal proceedings associated losses would be publicly disclosed in our U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filings as required.
with false marketing claims
Commitment to Ethical Marketing – We maintain internal policies requiring all advertising and marketing communications to customers to comply with relevant laws, regulatory
requirements, and Zoetis policies and procedures. All Zoetis colleagues and contingent workers are required to be familiar with our policies
relating to external communications. In addition, the local marketing and legal functions must approve all advertising and marketing materials in
order to ensure that all advertising and marketing material is truthful, clear, accurate and well balanced. Violations of our external communications
policy may result in disciplinary action up to and including termination.
Description of code of ethics governing HC-BP-270a.2 The Zoetis Code of Conduct mandates that all promotional materials and communications must be accurate, not misleading, and compliant with
promotion of off-label use of products all applicable legal and regulatory standards, including any applicable standards addressing off-label promotion, substantiation, scientific rigor
and fair balance. Colleagues in sales, marketing, veterinary medical services and regulatory functions are trained on, and must comply with, local
or regional policies with respect to labeling, promotional programs, product samples and other related topics. Regulatory review committees
are used on a regional basis to review and approve marketing and promotional materials prior to their use. Compliance with policy is subject to
internal audits, and policy violations may result in disciplinary actions, up to and including colleague termination.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 70
Employee Recruitment, Development and Retention
METRIC SASB CODE DISCLOSURE
Discussion of talent recruitment and HC-BP-330a.1 See the Caring for our Colleague section.
retention efforts for scientists and
research and development personnel
(1) Voluntary and (2) involuntary turnover rate HC-BP-330a.2
Voluntary Involuntary
for: (a) executives/senior managers, (b) mid-level
Executives/senior managers 0.1% 0.1%
managers, (c) professionals and (d) all others
Mid-level managers 0.4% 0.1%
Professionals 2.8% 0.5%
All other 7.3% 0.9%
Data provided reflects inclusion of all colleagues who meet headcount includable requirements as of the date data was compiled for this
report on February 13, 2022, for calendar year 2022. As headcount includable status may vary over time due to changes in employee status,
management has accepted that slight variances (not to exceed 1-2%) may occur for the same time period if data is compiled on an alternate date.
Parental leave usage – A total of 155 U.S. colleagues took advantage of the Zoetis Paid Parental Leave in 2022.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 71
Supply Chain Management
METRIC SASB CODE DISCLOSURE
Percentage of (1) entity's facilities and (2) HC-BP-430a.1 Zoetis conducts due diligence before doing business with suppliers and has well-developed periodic Supplier Quality and Environment, Health
Tier I suppliers' facilities participating in & Safety audit programs. We classify suppliers to manage risk and conduct formal assessments and audits to verify and monitor supplier
the RX-360 International Pharmaceutical compliance with applicable laws and regulations and Zoetis quality and EHS requirements. Zoetis utilizes RX-360 audit reports to supplement
Supply Chain Consortium audit program or our internal audit programs as necessary.
equivalent third-party audit programs for
integrity of supply chain and ingredients
Global supply chain management program – As a global company, Zoetis procures goods and services from all over the world. We align our procurement and supplier management
processes to ambitious ethical, social and environmental-related principles. We aim to work only with suppliers whose values are consistent with
our own and support them in building their own sustainability capabilities. Throughout the life of our relationship with each supplier, we seek to
ensure that their conduct matches the expectations in our Supplier Conduct Principles and Supplier Conduct Position Statement.
Management Approach
Our Global Sourcing and External Supply sourcing teams report into the EVP and President of Global Manufacturing and Supply and act centrally
on behalf of the manufacturing platforms and sites. Our Global Indirect Procurement team reports into the EVP, Chief Financial Officer and acts
centrally on behalf of corporate enabling functions and commercial divisions. In addition, we have a specialized procurement team dedicated to
our research and development division reporting to the EVP and President of Research & Development. President of Research & Development.
Our R&D procurement team manages scientific outsourcing to Contract Research Organizations (CROs), laboratories and other third parties.
These teams have a shared responsibility to execute our vision in this area and leverage synergy by bundling know-how and procurement spend.
Our main direct procurement materials include Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients (APIs), active biological ingredients, raw materials, intermediate
and packaging. Our external supply team manages our responsible sourcing strategy for global third-party manufacturing partners in formulation,
packaging and devices categories. Our indirect procurement team manages information technology, professional services, marketing and
advertising, human resources services, etc. Our R&D procurement team manages scientific outsourcing to Contract Research Organizations
(CROs), laboratories and other third parties
Governance
Our procurement policy, which applies to all colleagues, is based not only on economic principles but also on ethical, environmental and social
principles. We provide our procurement professionals with detailed training on these important topics and operate according to established
procurement and supplier management processes. Long-term contracts and active supplier management for strategically important goods and
services are important elements, which serve to minimize risk such as supply constraints and significant price fluctuations in order to deliver
uninterrupted supply and long-term competitiveness.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 72
METRIC SASB CODE DISCLOSURE
Responsible supply chain management – Our responsible procurement approach requires our suppliers to adhere to Zoetis’ commitments on human rights, ethics, environment, health
and safety, and related management systems via our Supplier Conduct Principles and Supplier Conduct Position Statement. Zoetis is an
associate member of the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI). This organization establishes and promotes responsible practices that will
continuously improve social, health, safety and environmentally sustainable outcomes for our supply chains.
Zoetis operates a zero-tolerance policy with respect to all forms of modern slavery, including forced labor, child labor, slavery and human
trafficking. Our standard contracts with suppliers require them to comply with all applicable laws, including modern slavery laws. Our stance on
modern slavery and measures taken to mitigate the risk of modern slavery in our operations and supply chain can be found in our Statement on
Modern Slavery.
We have implemented a Global Human Rights Policy, which outlines our commitment to respecting the human rights and dignity of everyone
and our efforts to promote and protect human rights. Our Global Human Rights Policy applies to all of our colleagues worldwide and details the
specific responsibilities our colleagues have in ensuring human rights are protected in our operations and supply chain.
In the area of environmental sustainability, the principles for our suppliers are consistent with Zoetis’ corporate commitment to environmental
responsibility by implementing systems to assure the safe handling and management of waste, wastewater and air emissions. In support of
international regulations regarding conflict minerals, Zoetis surveys its supply base annually to request relevant companies disclose the origin of
certain raw materials, so we can play our part in preventing the perpetuation of violence and human rights abuse in conflict zones.
Zoetis also extends its work to stem the tide of counterfeit medicines. Illegal medicines may cause harm to humans or animals and fail to treat
the disease for which they were intended. They do not pass through the usual evaluation of quality, safety and efficacy that is required for
authentic authorized medicines. Our distribution and supply contracts have anti-diversion clauses in them, and we work to secure the integrity
of our products through carefully selected supply channels. Zoetis incorporates anti-counterfeiting features in some of our printed packaging
components and has a focused approach to deterring counterfeiters through targeted investigations, legal actions, and partners with government
and non-governmental organizations to raise awareness and strengthen anti-counterfeiting laws. For more information see Counterfeit Drugs.
Zoetis conducts due diligence before doing business with suppliers to assess compliance with leading anti-corruption/anti-bribery practices and
has well-developed Supplier Quality and EHS audit programs. We classify suppliers to manage risk and conduct formal assessments and audits
to verify and monitor supplier compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
Zoetis’ manufacturing procurement contracts ask that suppliers support our Supplier Conduct Principles and conform to EHS expectations.
Standard contract language also requires that manufacturing suppliers agree to be audited to assess compliance with these principles, if
requested. Following an audit, we work with suppliers to develop action plans and track items to completion.
Zoetis takes a long-term strategic view when partnering with suppliers and will often share investment costs and resources to work in a highly
collaborative way to assist our supply partners in building their capability to deliver a robust, reliable and sustainable end-to-end supply chain.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 73
Business Continuity
METRIC SASB CODE DISCLOSURE
Business continuity – To assure continuity of critical business processes and to safeguard our colleagues, assets and business reputation, Zoetis maintains a Business
Continuity Management (BCM) program. Our BCM methodology provides a risk-based approach to the development of Business Continuity Plans
(BCP) that identify potential vulnerabilities, and document action plans to mitigate the risk. The BCP initiative includes a training program and
ongoing technical support by our Global EHS team, and extends across manufacturing and R&D sites, commercial markets, supply chain
and critical external suppliers. To evaluate the resiliency and risk profile of a site or market, a cross-functional team utilizes assessment templates,
along with a risk rating matrix to complete business interdependency mapping, operational and product risk assessments, and business impact
analyses. In addition, a BCP score card is used to track the status of each individual location’s BCP and indicates areas for improvement. Plans
are routinely updated and tested by conducting a tabletop exercise to validate recovery capability and identify potential process improvements.
Disaster Recovery plans for IT systems and applications are also a key output and have been successfully implemented across all critical
Zoetis locations.
Business Ethics
METRIC SASB CODE DISCLOSURE
Total amount of monetary losses as a HC-BP-510a.1 We have not, to date, incurred any monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with corruption
result of legal proceedings associated and bribery. Any future material losses would be publicly disclosed in our SEC filings as required.
with corruption and bribery
Description of code of ethics governing HC-BP-510a.2 Zoetis maintains a comprehensive Code of Conduct summarizing important policies and procedures including our corporate policy,
interactions with health care professionals Interactions with Prescribing Animal Healthcare Professionals and related local procedures governing promotional activities (the Global
Vet Policy). The Global Vet Policy governs the interactions our colleagues have with Prescribing Animal Healthcare Professionals
(PAHPs) including: (i) animal healthcare professionals with prescribing authority; and (ii) all employees of veterinarian hospitals and
veterinarian practices working directly with a prescribing veterinarian, regardless of whether or not such persons have prescribing
authority. The policy requires promotional materials to be accurate, not misleading and compliant with all applicable legal and regulatory
standards. It also requires compliance with Zoetis standards concerning hospitality and gifts, which must be modest in value and
infrequent, have a reasonable business purpose and must avoid even the appearance of attempting to influence the independent
business judgment of the recipient, inappropriately reward or influence the prescribing or dispensing behavior of PAHPs.
Each market is required to have a local standard operating procedure that has been approved by commercial
leadership, Finance, Legal and the Zoetis Compliance function. In 2021, Zoetis completed a comprehensive update
of these local standard operating procedures. Colleagues who interact with PAHPs are trained upon hiring and
receive updated training during their employment. This includes online live and virtual training sessions.
Compliance is enforced through local, regional and senior management, as well as the Zoetis Global Compliance program. The Zoetis
Global Compliance Program, in collaboration with Finance and Internal Audit, actively monitors and audits transactions and expenditures
for consistency with the Global Vet Policy and local procedures. Potential violations identified through monitoring, testing or audits
are escalated to the Compliance Investigations function for investigation and resolution consistent with our Code of Conduct.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 74
METRIC SASB CODE DISCLOSURE
Ethics and compliance program Zoetis is committed to maintaining integrity and ethical business conduct. Our Core Belief, “Always Do the Right Thing”, is the foundation of
our Global Compliance Program. In addition, Zoetis has a comprehensive Compliance function to ensure ethical risks are mitigated or avoided
through compliance training on our Code of Conduct, multiple channels for reporting potential ethical risks, and risk-based assessments and
audits performed in conjunction with Zoetis’ Internal Audit function.
Leadership, Governance and Accountability
The Compliance Program is led by our Chief Compliance Officer (CCO), who also oversees the Zoetis Enterprise Risk Management (ERM)
Program. The connectivity between the Compliance Program and the ERM Program reinforces and strengthens our strong culture of compliance,
and demonstrates the commitment of Zoetis to identify, mitigate, and resolve significant potential enterprise-wide and compliance risk.
The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors oversees the Compliance Program, including business ethics issues, and receives comprehensive
reports and updates from the CCO during its meetings, which take place at least four times per year. In addition, the CCO reports out to the full
Board of Directors at least three times per year concerning the Compliance Program and ERM.
The Compliance Program has strong support from the Zoetis senior leadership team through the Executive Compliance and Risk Council (ECRC),
which is led by the CEO and holds formal quarterly meetings with the full Executive Team and other senior leaders with significant compliance
and risk-focused roles (including our Controller, Chief Audit Officer, and Chief Information and Security Officer). The ECRC focuses on the
performance of our Compliance Program and alignment with executive leadership supporting continuous improvement and strengthening our
strong culture of compliance.
In 2021, Zoetis added substantial new resources to our Compliance Program including full-time dedicated anti-bribery and anticorruption,
monitoring and testing, operations and investigations functional area leaders reporting to the CCO.
Zoetis established the Zoetis Compliance Champions Network (ZCCN) of more than 70 colleagues with representation across functions
and seniority levels globally. The ZCCN is a megaphone for the compliance program that promotes a company-wide culture of integrity and
supporting compliance initiatives. Additionally, the Compliance function works closely with regional and local leaders globally to help ensure that
our efforts to promote compliance initiatives and program improvements resonate with our colleagues and is a meaningful mechanism through
which the Compliance function receives and applies feedback for continuous improvement.
Ethics and Compliance Training and Culture
Zoetis requires all colleagues to complete our Code of Conduct training annually, which includes a written confirmation upon completion of
the training that they have read and understand the Code of Conduct. In 2022, 100% of Zoetis colleagues completed the training. There are
additional required online trainings that colleagues complete such as Pharmacovigilance, Anti-Bribery and Corruption, Data Privacy, Travel and
Entertainment, and Respectful Treatment (Anti-Harassment and Discrimination). These online trainings are supplemented by virtual and live
training sessions and workshops for regional and local colleagues with a focus on relating our compliance standards to their daily work for
Zoetis. Select colleagues are required to complete additional trainings based on their job duties. All corporate policies and trainings are
translated into at least seven core languages and select policies are translated into 15 languages.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 75
METRIC SASB CODE DISCLOSURE
Ethics and compliance program Starting in 2023, Zoetis will also require all contingent workers with a Zoetis email address to complete our Code of Conduct training and our
(continued) general data protection training.
Additionally, the Compliance function monitors the responses of Zoetis colleagues to compliance culture questions asked in our annual colleague
engagement surveys (including the questions “Colleagues at Zoetis are committed to performing with integrity?” and “I can report unethical
practices without fear of reprisal?”). The Compliance function reports out on colleague responses, benchmarks and engages with leaders to
address potential trends. The Zoetis survey results for these questions for the past two years places Zoetis in the top quartile of companies.
Reporting and Non-Retaliation
Zoetis offers colleagues multiple channels to report potential issues or concerns, including the Zoetis helpline web portal, which is available 24/7
for reporting potential violations. Zoetis reinforces the importance of colleague reporting though training and updates (in-person, virtual and on-
line) that take place locally, regionally and globally with an emphasis upon building a culture that expects and empowers colleagues to always
do the right thing when it comes to integrity, compliance and ethical business conduct. All reports are taken seriously, appropriately investigated,
and resolved consistent with the law and applicable Zoetis policy. Zoetis will not tolerate retaliation against anyone who reports in good faith any
known or suspected improper conduct or a violation of Zoetis policy. In addition, Zoetis will not tolerate retaliation against anyone who participates
in a compliance investigation. Zoetis policy provides for corrective measures including disciplinary action as may be appropriate to address and
resolve a reported violation.
Risk Assessment, Evaluation and Audits
Zoetis maintains a comprehensive ERM Program, which is designed to identify existing and emerging enterprise-wide risks, ensure that these
risks are mitigated appropriately and adjust mitigation plans as risks may evolve or change. The ERM Program is also designed to promote and
further strengthen our compliance culture by fostering risk awareness among our colleagues and engagement to mitigate risks effectively. The
ERM Program includes a Task Force, comprised of more than 20 senior enterprise leaders with diverse expertise across Zoetis globally, who lead
our annual risk assessment and periodic updates to the Executive Team and the Board of Directors.
The Compliance function conducts risk-based assessment and audits in collaboration with Internal Audit focusing on antibribery and anti-
corruption, global trade compliance, colleague expenditures, data privacy and other potential risk areas, including ethics. These audits include
holistic audits of our global antibribery and anticorruption program every two years, annual holistic audits of our third-party distributors and
other sales channel partners, and audits of our data privacy program following the implementation of data privacy laws in high-risk markets. The
areas of focus are informed by internal compliance trend analysis, external enforcement actions, complexity of business operations in a region or
country, and external corruption perception risks, among other factors.
Further, the Zoetis Internal Audit function routinely audits elements of our compliance program, including an annual audit of our Code of Conduct
training program to comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2022. Zoetis also annually conducts three proactive compliance
program effectiveness audits in high-risk markets to continuously improve our compliance program and ethical business culture. In addition,
Zoetis’ external independent auditors audit our internal compliance matter management and reporting procedures on an annual basis.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 76
METRIC SASB CODE DISCLOSURE
Ethics and compliance program Monitoring and Testing
(continued) Zoetis recognizes that compliance monitoring and testing is essential to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal controls and identify
opportunities for continuous improvement of our Compliance Program. This includes testing to ascertain adherence to Zoetis policies and
procedures, as well as compliance with legal and regulatory requirements. The Compliance function conducts ongoing monitoring and testing
under our anti-bribery and anti-corruption procedures, including risk-based due diligence of third-party suppliers and sales channel partners, as
well as sponsorships, donations and other transactions. Additionally, the Compliance function collaborates with Finance on continuous, near real-
time monitoring of colleague expenses. Potential concerns identified through monitoring and testing, or as a result of compliance assessments,
are referred to the Compliance Investigations function for further review and action.
Zoetis reinforces this core expectation of colleagues through online, live and virtual training, and meetings where compliance, integrity and
ethical business conduct are discussed. In 2021, Zoetis implemented a campaign we call “Safe to Say” to help promote a culture of openness and
transparency where colleagues are expected to ask questions and report concerns if they become aware of any potential or actual violations.
The Compliance Investigations function maintains comprehensive performance reporting metrics including benchmarks for the total number of
potential compliance matters reported or escalated to the Compliance function, matter type or subject, closure rates, corrective measures, and
other metrics for evaluating the effectiveness of our Compliance Program. Disciplinary actions are tracked and reported for trend analysis as
well as for consistency and fairness of application. Additionally, the Compliance Investigations function maintains practices for feedback from
investigations to be incorporated into assessments, auditing, monitoring and testing, and training for continuous improvement of our Compliance
Program.
Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption
Zoetis maintains Global Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Key Principles, applicable to all colleagues and anyone acting on behalf of Zoetis,
including consultants, agents and representatives, which prohibit providing any payment or benefit to any person or entity in order to gain
an unfair business advantage. These principles provide guidelines on acceptable/appropriate behavior and approval procedures for certain
payments. The Zoetis Compliance function monitors and tests all pre-approval requests for transactions subject to the Principles and requires all
persons acting on behalf of Zoetis to provide responses to an anti-bribery and anti-corruption questionnaire to further facilitate compliance with
the Principles.
Political Involvement Our Policy on Political Contributions and any contributions from Zoetis’ Political Action Committee, are overseen by senior
management with periodic updates to the Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee of the Board of Directors.
Information on our Policy on Political Contributions and political spending disclosures can be found under the Policies and
Procedures section of our Corporate Governance web page at: Zoetis Animal Health Corporate Governance | Zoetis.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 77
Data Security and Privacy
METRIC SASB CODE DISCLOSURE
Data and privacy protection – Zoetis is committed to the responsible and transparent use and protection of personal data entrusted to us by customers, employees and others.
Our Global Privacy Office maintains an enterprise-wide policy that guides the collection, maintenance and protection of personal data and
considers the legal and regulatory requirements where we do business. Our data protection practices are also reviewed with our Data
Protection Governance Council, a cross-functional body composed of senior-level leaders who provide oversight and guidance that informs
company practices.
Our focus on “privacy by design” in 2022 was to help ensure that privacy principles are considered during process design and throughout
our entire engineering lifecycle. With this approach in mind, we constantly assess how data protection can be achieved by improving processes
and promoting greater awareness throughout the organization as to the importance of data privacy.
We continually provide our employees and contractors with training on global privacy principles in accordance with our commitment to
respect and safeguard personal data. Regular data privacy updates are also given by our Chief Privacy Officer to senior leadership and the
Audit Committee.
Information security – The Zoetis information security program is aligned and measured against the National Institute of Standards and Technology Cybersecurity
Framework (NIST CSF). We employ a risk-based and intelligence-driven program protecting data and information with multiple defenses and
layers of security, commonly referred to as a “Defense in Depth” approach, and ensure we align our capabilities with the five functions of the
NIST CSF: Identify, Protect, Detect, Respond and Recover. In addition to continuous environment monitoring, a third-party assessment, which
we conduct approximately every 18 months, ensures our cybersecurity program constantly adapts to the changing threat landscape and our
evolving business. This third-party assessment includes an evaluation of our capabilities based NIST Cybersecurity Framework.
Zoetis has an extensive information security training program that includes: monthly awareness articles, a robust ethical phishing program (with
reports reviewed with the Executive Team to drive down ethical phishing click-rates), a Security Ambassador program for additional training and
awareness for individuals in high risk roles, required and optional training modules in our Learning Management System, and quarterly podcasts
to help colleagues, both personally and professionally, with their security decisions. Securing our customers’ data and our critical information
assets, including our own colleague data, is always at the forefront of the decisions we make regarding our information security program.
We have a 24/7 managed Security Operations Center (SOC) for immediate escalation of any critical events. It uses automation to ensure that
events are processed quickly and efficiently.
In the event of an incident, we use an Incident Response procedure and playbook that is carefully followed and practiced in simulated incident
exercises. It is based upon the NIST Standard 800-61 and customized for Zoetis. Additionally, through disaster recovery and business continuity
practices, we strive to ensure continuous business operations for our customers. To provide additional protection for the company, we also
maintain a cybersecurity insurance policy.
Because data security is such an important area of risk oversight, we have an established governance program with clear roles for the executive
management team as well as Board for the oversight.
Our Board receives a quarterly information security dashboard covering the most active and relevant threats to Zoetis, trends, and any notable
events. In addition, the Board receives an annual update from our Chief Information Security Officer on the information security program,
including the results of our independent, third-party assessment. The Board also participates in periodic table-top exercises involving simulated
data security incidents.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 78
Social Data
GLOBAL WORKFORCE1 2022 2021 2020
Outside of the U.S. 6,900 6,200 6,000
Inside the U.S. 6,900 5,900 5,300
RACE/ETHNICITY – U.S. WORKFORCE 2022 2021 2020
White 75.4% 76.2% 78.7%
Black 4.8% 4.6% 4.2%
Asian 10.7% 10.5% 9.4%
Hispanic/Latinx 6.4% 5.9% 5.2%
Other 2.7% 2.8% 2.5%
GENDER – GLOBAL WORKFORCE 2022 2021 2020
Male 53% 54% 55%
Female 47% 46% 45%
GENDER – GLOBAL MANAGEMENT2 2022 2021 2020
Male 63% 65% 66%
Female 37% 35% 34%
For a more detailed report of our U.S. colleague demographics, see our 2022 EEO-1 report.
1 Workforce numbers are approximate.
2 Management levels defined as Director Level and above.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 79
Health and Safety Performance
METRIC1 2022 2021 2020
Total Injury Rate (TIR)2 0.37 0.50 0.46
Lost Time Injury Rate (LTIR)2 0.20 0.26 0.20
Fatality Rate 0 0 0
U.S. OSHA Voluntary Protection Program (VPP) Star and Zoetis H&S Star Sites3 OSHA VPP Star: 3 U.S. OSHA VPP Star: 3 U.S. OSHA VPP Star: 3 U.S.
manufacturing sites manufacturing sites manufacturing sites
and 1 logistics center and 1 logistics center and 1 logistics center
Zoetis H&S Zoetis H&S Zoetis H&S
Star: 3 global Star: 2 global Star: 1 global
manufacturing sites manufacturing sites manufacturing site
1 These metrics cover worldwide operations.
2 U.S. average for our industry in 2020 were 1.6 for TIR and 0.7 for LTIR. In 2021, U.S. average were 1.6 for TIR and 0.7 for LTIR. 2022 industry averages were not available at the time of publication.
3 In 2022, we had 39 manufacturing and logistics sites (22 locations in the U.S. and 17 global), 5 primary R&D sites (2 location in the U.S. and 3 global), and 4 global sites supporting other business units. In 2021, we had 41 manufacturing and logistics sites
(23 locations in the U.S. and 18 global), 5 primary R&D sites (2 location in the U.S. and 3 global), and 4 global sites supporting other business units. In 2020, we had 40 manufacturing and logistics sites (22 locations in the U.S. and 18 global), 4 primary R&D sites
(1 location in the U.S. and 3 global), and 4 global sites supporting other business units.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 80
Environmental Data
Greenhouse Gas Emissions (metric tons CO e)1,2
2
2022 2021 2020
Scope 1 emissions – total3,4 112,577 101,498 77,694
Manufacturing, R&D and offices 91,621 81,477 77,694
Fleet 20,956 20,021 Not available
Scope 2 emissions – market-based5 190,609 186,710 Not available
Scope 2 emissions – location-based 226,423 227,904 243,576
Scope 1 and 2 emissions6 303,186 288,208 321, 70
2
Scope 1 and 2 emissions intensity (per $1MM revenue) 37.5 36.8 47.9
1 GHG emissions were calculated using the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard.
2 GHG emissions and emissions intensity from 2020 and 2021 were recalculated and restated to account for the acquisition of a new manufacturing site in Rutherford, Australia in 2022.
3 In 2021, Zoetis added fleet vehicles to our Scope 1 footprint. Adding fleet emissions to the Scope 1 footprint resulted in an additional 20,021 metric tons of CO e being added to the company’s 2021 Scope 1 emissions. Data was not retroactively added to 2020 as data is not
2
available. Emissions from Zoetis agricultural activity have been added to the manufacturing, R&D and offices line. Data related to herd emissions and breakdown of manure waste is reported in 2022 and has been retroactively added to 2021 emissions. Herd emissions data
is not available for 2020. GHG emissions from a waste solvent incinerator at our Rathdrum site has been added to the footprint in 2022. Data has also been retroactively added for 2020 and 2021.
4 GHG emissions from Zoetis owned and leased offices where data was available (accounting for 70% of our owned and leased office space) was added to our carbon footprint in 2021. Zoetis offices account for less than 0.5% of the 2021 emissions footprint. Data was
retroactively added for 2020. Energy data from the offices is estimated based on the square area of the office when energy invoices are not available. GHG emissions data from Zoetis office locations has been expanded to include more than 95% of the office locations for
2022, but data for these additional locations is not available for 2020 and 2021. Data from 19 Zoetis reference laboratories have been added to the emissions footprint in 2022. This has resulted 803 metric tons of CO2e being added to our emissions footprint. Emissions data
for reference laboratories is not available for 2020 and 2021.
5 In 2021, we commenced using market-based emissions factors for purchased electricity. GHGs from imported electricity are calculated using the GHG Protocol Scope 2 guidance requiring dual reporting using two emissions factors for each site: market-based and
location-based. Location-based factors are the grid average emissions factor for the country, or region in the US, where a site is located. Market-based factors are specific to Zoetis purchasing, taking account of the residual energy mix a site is sourcing electricity from.
6 For the purposes of reporting total emissions, 2021 and 2022 combine Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 emissions. For 2020, we have combined Scope 1 with location-based Scope 2 emissions. Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 emissions are the basis
of our carbon neutrality commitment, and we will be using these metrics to measure our performance.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 81
Energy (gigajoule)1,2
2022 2021 2020
Energy 3,546,540 3,381,761 3,331,122
Energy intensity (per $1MM revenue) 439 432 496
Renewable energy 226,858 204,879 130,435
Renewable energy (%)3 6.4 6.1 3.9
RE100: Renewable Electricity (%)4 14.7 13.4 8.7
1 Energy and energy intensity data from 2020 and 2021 was recalculated and restated to account for a manufacturing site in Rutherford, Australia acquired in 2022.
2 Energy use from Zoetis owned and leased offices where data was available (accounting for 70% of our owned and leased office space) was added to our energy footprint in 2021. Zoetis offices account for less than 0.5% of the 2021 energy footprint. Data was
retroactively added for 2020. Energy data from the offices is estimated based on the square area of the office when energy invoices are not available. Energy data from Zoetis office locations has been expanded to include more than 95% of the office locations
for 2022, but data for these additional locations is not available for 2020 and 2021. Energy data from 19 Zoetis reference laboratories has been added to the energy footprint in 2022. Energy data was not retroactively added to 2021 or 2020 as it is not available.
The energy footprint was expanded in 2022 to include energy consumed in our waste solvent incinerator at our Rathdrum facility and retroactively added for 2020 and 2021.
3 Renewable energy includes the proportion of renewable electricity, other renewable heating/cooling and biofuels use relative to total Scope 1 and 2 energy use.
4 Renewable electricity is aligned to our RE100 commitment and is the proportion of renewable electricity relative to total Scope 2 electricity use.
Water (cubic meters)1,2
2022 2021 2020
Water intake 3,528,312 3,273,613 2,918,334
Water intake in areas of high / extremely high water stress3 11.7% 12.2% 8.1%
Water discharge 2,588,745 2,485,020 2,655,549
Water recycled 35,803 58,047 50,000
Water intake intensity (per $1MM revenue) 437 418 434
Water discharge intensity (per $1MM revenue) 320 317 395
1 Water and water intensity data from 2020 and 2021 were recalculated and restated to account for a manufacturing site in Rutherford, Australia acquired in 2022.
2 Water usage data for our office locations and 19 reference laboratories has been included in our 2022 water footprint where data is available. Water data was not retroactively added for 2020 and 2021 as it is not available. For offices and reference laboratories
where metered data is available, this is included. For offices and reference laboratories where no metered data is available, water usage has been estimated based on the number of colleagues on site plus estimated water usage in laboratory equipment.
3 Sites in areas of Water stress include Buellton CA, San Diego CA, Eagle Grove IA, Durham NC, Louvain La Neuve Belgium, Catania Italy, Suzhou China & Melbourne Australia.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 82
Non-Hazardous Waste (kilograms)1
2022 2021 2020
Non-hazardous waste - total1,2 16,034,356 18,044,798 12,924,106
Landfilled 4,088,767 4,919,541 Not available
Incinerated 784,348 474,821 Not available
Energy Recovery2 1,402,966
6,014,636 5,630,506
Recycled3 3,775,233
Land application (Recycled) manure3 5,983,041 6,635,800 Not available
Non-hazardous waste intensity (per $1MM revenue) 1,984 2,305 1,924
Non-hazardous waste recycled/energy recovery intensity (per $1MM revenue) 1,381 1,616 838
1 Waste data from a manufacturing site in Rutherford, Australia acquired in 2022 was not added to the waste footprint as data is not available. We plan to collect waste data in line with Zoetis reporting practices in 2023.
2 In 2021, Zoetis reported waste disposed through incineration with energy recovery and recycled waste under a single category “recycled/energy recovery.” In 2022, we split out the waste disposed through incineration with energy recovery and reported
it as a unique category.
3 In 2022, we began reporting the quantity of cow manure waste that we recycle as fertilizer on our farm facilities. We have retroactively included manure waste data for 2021.
Hazardous Waste (kilograms)1
2022 2021 2020
Hazardous waste - total 15,196,924 13,135,713 9,467,446
Landfill 1,619,397 1,181,818 Not available
Incinerated 1,898,191 2,499,143 Not available
Energy Recovery2 11,420,358
9,454,752 2,665,400
Recycled 258,978
Hazardous waste intensity (per $1MM revenue) 1,881 1,678 1,409
Hazardous waste recycled/energy recovery intensity (per $1MM revenue) 1,445 1,208 397
1 Waste data from a manufacturing site in Rutherford, Australia acquired in 2022 was not added to the waste footprint as data is not available. We plan to collect waste data in line with Zoetis reporting practices in 2023.
2 In 2021, Zoetis reported waste disposed through incineration with energy recovery and recycled waste under a single category “recycled/energy recovery”. In 2022, we split out the waste disposed through incineration with energy recovery and reported
it as a unique category.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 83
Zoetis supports the Taskforce on Climate-related progress on all climate-related targets at each and governance of the climate strategy. The Head
Financial Disclosure (TCFD) and has committed Committee meeting with focused progress of Sustainability reports Zoetis’ progress on our
TCFD Index to disclosing our progress aligned with the TCFD discussions at least annually. Additional details sustainability goals and targets to the CSO.
recommendations. Zoetis published our first TCFD- regarding all of the oversight responsibilities for
The Planet Steering Council is a working group
aligned ESG report in 2019 which is available on our each of the Board Committees can be found
dedicated to aligning business and sustainability
corporate website. Information on our CDP Climate below under Zoetis Governance Overview.
priorities across our organization, which enables
Change disclosure, which provides further detail
Introduction Management level: At the management level, cross functional engagement from a variety of
on our approach to climate change, is available at
our Executive Vice President, Corporate Affairs, Zoetis business units including representatives from
At Zoetis, we have committed to our Driven https://www.cdp.net. We continue to make progress
Communications and Chief Sustainability Officer Communications, R&D, Global Manufacturing and
to Care strategy, launched in 2021, as the on our climate-related risk strategy and this report
(CSO) is responsible for leading Zoetis’ ESG Supply (GMS), among others. The Planet Steering
governance framework to guide and deliver reflects our actions and processes as of December
agenda manages and oversees our global Council divides work and accountability across our
on the integration of climate-related risks and 31, 2022 to better understand our climate-related
initiatives within Zoetis’ three sustainability pillars: three key sustainability priorities within our Planet
opportunities into our overall business strategy. risks and opportunities and their potential impacts.
Communities, Planet and Animals. The CSO reports Pillar: minimizing our carbon footprint, rethinking
This long-range strategy and targets includes our We will continue to update our disclosures in the
to the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and leads our packaging and improving the sustainability
commitment to reducing our greenhouse gas (GHG) future as we progress along our climate journey.
our overall climate strategy, including resourcing of our locations. These priority areas are further
emissions with a goal of being carbon neutral
Governance and governing efforts to ensure climate strategy supported by cross-functional working groups.
in our operations by 2030. Climate change is a
delivery as well as communicating Zoetis’ climate
significant global issue with wide-ranging impacts In addition, Zoetis established site sustainability
Board level: Zoetis’ Board of Directors (the Board)
ambition and progress. The CSO provides a semi-
and we are managing our climate-related risks teams and a Market Green Team as cross-functional
exercises ultimate oversight and responsibility over
annual detailed update to the Board that covers
to better serve the communities we work in, our working groups to support Zoetis’ third sustainability
Zoetis’ sustainability program and strategy. Each
Zoetis’ sustainability programs and progress. The
colleagues, our customers, the health of animals priority: improving the sustainability of our locations.
Committee of the Board contributes to the oversight
CSO and/or representatives from the Reporting &
and those who care for them around the world. In 2022, site sustainability teams were designated
of Zoetis’ sustainability program and strategy and
Disclosures Steering Council provide more frequent
at major Zoetis sites to lead localized sustainability
helps inform the Board’s ultimate oversight. The
sustainability updates to the CGSC and Q&I as
actions and their activities include determining
See our full governance Board provides guidance regarding Zoetis’ goals
outlined above, and general sustainability updates
climate opportunities, such as onsite renewables.
and targets and monitors our climate initiatives
are provided to the Audit Committee and Human
diagram in the including our RE100 commitment, carbon neutrality
Resources Committee regularly. The CSO also In 2020, Zoetis established the Energy Core
initiatives, and our overarching Driven to Care
reports progress regularly on Zoetis’ sustainability Team, a technical working group comprised of
introduction section
sustainability strategy. In 2022, Zoetis announced
strategy directly to the CEO and the Executive Team. representatives across our manufacturing and
expanded climate commitments, including a goal to
R&D business units. The team focuses on ways to
of this report
The CSO is informed on the day-to-day evolution
achieve carbon neutrality in our operations by 2030.
operationalize our climate targets by building tools
of Zoetis’ sustainability strategy by the Global
and updating processes to embed sustainability
The Corporate Governance and Sustainability
Head of Corporate Sustainability (Head of
into our capital program and cost improvement
Committee (CGSC) of the Board has primary
Sustainability). The Head of Sustainability is
processes. The Energy Core team provides routine
responsibility for overseeing Zoetis’ sustainability
responsible for establishing and implementing
updates to the GMS Leadership Team on progress.
strategy and practices. The CGSC coordinates the
the company’s sustainability priorities and goals,
ESG activities of Zoetis’ other Board Committees
tracking progress, and driving organizational The above graphic presents how accountability
and reports regularly to the full Board on the
accountability. This includes coordinating the work for sustainability and ESG topics is managed
progress of the company’s sustainability initiatives.
and agenda of our Planet Steering Council. The across Zoetis’ internal teams and committees.
The Quality and Innovation (Q&I) Committee of
Head of Sustainability collaborates with cross
the Board oversees climate-related targets and
functional leaders, including the Vice President,
programmatic progress specifically. Both CGSC
Head of Sustainability Operations, to define
and the Q&I Committee receive regular progress
climate targets, progress, reporting, evaluation
updates on Zoetis’ carbon neutral roadmap and
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 84
Strategy
Key Physical Risks
As part of the existing risk management
processes, Zoetis has identified several climate- RISKS INCREASED FREQUENCY OF NATURAL CHANGES IN AIR AND CHANGES IN WATER SUPPLY
related risks and opportunities for ongoing
DISASTERS AND ADVERSE WEATHER WATER TEMPERATURE
monitoring, mitigation, and effective overall
OCCURRENCES
risk management. Zoetis defines the following
time horizons covered in the assessment of Timeframe Medium-term: 3-10 years Medium-term: 3-10 years Medium-term: 3-10 years
our climate-related risks and opportunities:
Risk Description Potential disruption of our manufacturing A) May result in increasing Potential water supply interruptions
• Short-term: 0-3 years
processes and our supply chain. prevalence of parasites and and low water quality.
diseases that affect food
• Medium-term: 3-10 years
animals and livestock.
• Long-term: 10+ years
B) May impact the
availability of land suitable
for raising livestock.
Business Impact These disruptions may have a material Increases in air and water A reduction in water supply would impact our
effect on our business, financial condition, temperatures may have production capabilities as our manufacturing
results of operations and/or cash flow. the potential to impact process requires ample water.
our customer’s operations
and businesses. If such
events occur, our customers
may purchase fewer
Zoetis products which
inherently will negatively
impact our revenues.
Mitigation Response A) Our Business Continuity Management (BCM) A mitigation response is not Zoetis is committed to reducing the vulnerability
addresses interruptions of supply or production yet in place, but Zoetis will of our sites to climate-related impacts. We
due to exceptional weather events. These plans are consider this in future years. include water related risks in our BCM program
determined and adapted by each individual Zoetis to advance our mitigation capabilities. These
site. Plans are routinely updated and tested using actions include having documented plans of
tabletop exercises to validate recovery capability action for physical impacts to our site that could
and identify potential process improvements. be increased in frequency due to climate change
If a potential severe weather risk threatens a such as long-term regional blackouts. The plans
facility, Zoetis works to implement these plans document how each site should proceed in terms
in collaboration with our insurance providers. of likelihood of occurrence and impact to our
company's direct operations, value chain and
B) Natural hazards exposures have been added
customers. The program’s intent is to prepare our
to our due diligence questionnaires that are
sites for natural hazards and resource availability
required for Zoetis to consider for a potential
in order to reduce the amount of time a business
acquisition. Natural hazard reviews are also
function is offline due to emergency events.
conducted for select key suppliers, third-party
distribution centers and contract manufacturers.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 85
Additional mitigation strategies for reducing
Key transition risks Key opportunities
Zoetis’ risk of natural hazards/severe weather
events are supported by FM Global, a third-party
RISK NEW OR EXPANDED LAWS AND OPPORTUNITY INCREASED REVENUES RESULTING FROM
commercial property insurance provider, who
REGULATIONS ENACTED TO ADDRESS INCREASED DEMAND FOR PRODUCTS
has expertise in property risk mitigation. Since
2016, FM Global has been engaged to survey CLIMATE CHANGE AND SERVICES
property insurance loss mitigation at all critical
Timeframe Short-term: 0-3 years; Medium-term: Timeframe Medium-term: 3-10 years
Zoetis sites including owned, leased and key
3-10 years; Long-term: 10+ years
third-party suppliers. This includes advice on
Risk Description Concerns regarding GHG emissions and other
implementation of site-specific mitigation measures Risk Description Emerging international, national, regional, and potential environmental impacts of livestock
to reduce property risk exposure for fire and local regulations in response to climate changes production have led to some consumers
natural hazards. In 2022, Zoetis implemented a have the potential to impact areas where we have changing preferences to products raised with
operations or may establish future operations. environmentally friendly production practices.
number of recommended mitigation measures
suggested by FM Global targeted at reducing
Business Impact Zoetis has identified a market opportunity to
potential exposure to climate-related risks. These
Business Impact Zoetis is investigating strategies to quantify
provide our customers with products and services
measures included: evaluation of roofing for snow the possible impact of carbon regulation and
that could help them lower the environmental
drifting, creation of a protocol for semi-annual taxes and how new regulations might affect our
and carbon impact on their livestock.
roof inspection and maintenance, improvements budgets and operations in certain geographical
areas, as well as potential costs in the form of
to flood emergency response plans, installing Opportunity Zoetis has implemented processes to evaluate
investments of capital to maintain compliance
secondary roof drainage systems, and providing Response the carbon impact of our products and has
with the laws, regulations and taxes.
seismic gas shutoff devices for methane lines. engaged with our stakeholders to explore
markets for environmentally preferable products.
Mitigation Response Mitigation strategies include, but are not limited to:
FM Global tracks mitigation efforts at each site
Zoetis is investing in resources and research
and recently developed a Global Site Climate A) Internal tracking and reporting of current and
and development in programs to work with
Risk Report that measures and tracks Zoetis’ proposed laws, governing through appropriate
customers to reduce their emissions and
exposure to climate risk, climate risk quality, and committees, adherence to credible ESG
environmental impact. Some examples include:
frameworks, and leveraging technology systems
climate resilience at key Zoetis facilities. Starting
to capture and disseminate relevant info.
in 2023, Zoetis will receive this report quarterly. • Using genetics, data and digital technology
to improve individual care of animals
B) Adherence to policy standards and procedures,
governing through appropriate committees,
• Innovations including immune therapies
assessments of regulatory landscape, colleague
that could yield alternatives to antibiotics
training, implementing, and leveraging technology
or understanding pathways that could
systems to best manage processes, and
help reduce methane production
engaging in appropriate lobbying efforts.
• Improved access to veterinary care, products and
training in developing countries, where intensity
of GHG emissions from animals are greatest
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 86
In addition, managing the GHG management strategies Risk Management As of December 31, 2022, Zoetis has identified
GHG emissions footprint of our include, but are not limited to: eight climate-related risks categories in total:
In 2022, Zoetis’ updated its process for identifying,
operations is a prioritized risk that 1. We continue to invest in energy efficiency assessing and responding to climate risk under
• Financial Impact of Environmental Exposure
Zoetis takes into account during upgrades in manufacturing equipment; utilities its Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) Program.
• Climate Change
such as cooling towers, chillers, and boilers; Zoetis maintains a customized Risk Register
our financial planning processes.
and LED lighting. We are also optimizing intended to identify categorize and define potential • Natural Disasters/Weather
Implementation of our Carbon
operating processes in air ventilation and risk to Zoetis comprehensively. The Risk Register
Neutral Roadmap is embedded • Changes in U.S. Securities and Exchange
other utility systems, and we are committed is updated annually by the Zoetis ERM Task Force
Commission (SEC) Disclosure Requirements
in our capital planning processes
to procuring renewable energy. (comprised of 20 key Zoetis enterprise leaders
for both manufacturing and R&D. with diverse areas of expertise and functional • Corporate Sustainability Due
2. Global Head of Corporate Sustainability and
Opportunities to improve energy responsibilities e.g., sustainability, finance, legal, Diligence and Disclosure Laws
our Vice President, Sustainability Operations,
manufacturing, operations, commercial, quality,
efficiency have been included in with the support of our CSO, partner to • Chemical Regulatory Changes
regulatory, EH&S, IT, R&D). Climate-related risks
capital planning for years prior and assess and address external stakeholder
• Environment, Health and Safety (“EHS”)
are identified and raised across the business on
expectations for reporting and disclosure of
became an explicit focus beginning
an ongoing basis, such as by the Board, Executive • Corporate Sustainability Reporting
our GHG footprint. Our process also includes
in 2020 when we established our Team, ERM Task Force, Zoetis colleagues, external
review by our Internal Audit team to validate All eight risks have undergone initial assessment,
initial energy intensity goal, with reports, and regulators. The updated ERM process
the accuracy of our disclosures and process and they will continue to be assessed, monitored
has led to the re-categorization of risks identified
the addition of a focus on abating
controls. The GHG footprint data is incorporated and reviewed under the following updated
within the strategy section. This includes the three
carbon in 2022 when the carbon into our strategy to identify focus areas for Zoetis ERM processes. These risks are rated
physical risks (Increased frequency of natural
neutral target was established. our energy efficiency and decarbonization and assessed annually by the Zoetis ERM Task
disasters and adverse weather occurrences,
workstreams and then incorporate those Force as part of a comprehensive annual review
Changes in air and water temperature, and
opportunities into our capital planning process. overseen by the ERM Program Office. Each risk
Changes in water supply) now captured under
is assigned an inherent risk rating based on an
3. Beginning in 2020, we took additional the ERM risk ‘Natural Hazards/Weather’, and
impact score and likelihood score. A mitigation
steps to incorporate energy efficiency and the one transition risk (New or expanded laws
score is determined based on effectiveness of
renewable energy into our capital project and regulations enacted to address climate
current risk management strategies and applied to
planning and design. We have established change) now captured under the ‘Corporate
the inherent risk rating to finally arrive at a residual
an Energy Core Team, composed of Sustainability Due Diligence and Disclosure Laws’.
risk rating (critical, high, medium, low). Risks
Engineering, Operational Excellence, and
rated as “critical” and “high” become identified
Environmental Health and Safety colleagues
as Zoetis’ Most Significant Risks (MSRs), which
to determine how to develop a consistent
translates to management “action required” or
approach on reviewing capital projects while
“continuous monitoring” respectively. Other risks
considering climate change impacts.
may be included in a new ERM Watch List that
captures evolving risks which are being actively
monitored and evaluated for inclusion as an MSR.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index 87
As part of the continuous improvement of its As of December 31, 2022, Corporate Sustainability Metrics and Targets
ERM program, in 2022 Zoetis implemented a Due Diligence and Disclosure Laws has been
Zoetis has measured and tracked its scope
new ERM Dashboard to support the Executive identified as an MSR. As part of Zoetis’ ERM
1 and 2 GHG emissions against a 2019
Team and Board’s oversight. The dashboard process, all identified MSRs must have additional
baseline year. Zoetis is currently taking steps
provides an overview of the evolution of Zoetis’ mitigation plans that follow Zoetis’ risk mitigation
to build capabilities for Scope 3 emissions
MSRs over a rolling four-quarter period, along framework requirements. The requirements
reporting beyond our already established
with other emerging risks that are currently are divided into five main categories:
target to reduce travel-related emissions.
on the ERM “Watch List” of evolving or new
A. Governance: A team of cross-functional
risk undergoing additional consideration and For all environmental performance, see our
personnel to implement high-level oversight
evaluation by Zoetis. The Executive Team began Environmental Data in the ESG Index of the report.
and controls that govern management
utilizing the ERM Dashboard in Q1 2023 as
Zoetis is committed to minimizing our impact
the mainstay of its quarterly risk management B. Process: More-detailed programs and
on the environment and, to support this goal
responsibilities, to confirm, update and/or revise day-to-day workflows that implement the
we have set the following sustainability goals
current risk assessments and mitigation strategy higher-level governance requirements
and targets to guide us in that journey:
effectiveness. The bi-annual ERM presentation
C. People: Assigned responsibility to select
to the Board in December 2022 included the
Zoetis personnel for managing specific risks, • Carbon neutrality in our own operations by 2030
inaugural dashboard to support the Board’s
along with the educational programs and
• 100% renewable energy by 2030
oversight of the results of the annual ERM risk
communications that support their efforts
assessment and mitigation of Zoetis’ MSRs. • Reduction of energy intensity in manufacturing
Mitigation plans for Zoetis’s MSRs are updated D. Technology: Systems and IT solutions that are and research and development by 5% by
annually by the Task Force and are subject to deployed to mitigate specific risks or assist 2025 (a target that Zoetis already surpassed
quarterly adjustments based on Executive Team colleagues in their risk mitigation efforts in 2022 by reducing energy intensity by 13.5%
and other feedback to the ERM Program Office. E. Continuous improvement: Planned but and is now retired) from a 2019 baseline
not yet implemented mitigation efforts
• Reduction of transport-related emissions
As part of the ‘Corporate Sustainability Due by 25% by 2025 from a 2019 baseline
Diligence and Disclosure Laws’ MSR’s mitigation
Progress on our sustainability goals
strategy, the Legal team was tasked with
and targets has been tied to executive
monitoring evolving requirements related to
compensation. Overall compensation for
sustainability reporting (e.g., SEC rulemaking)
the Executive Team is based on multiple
along with our Corporate Sustainability, GMS,
business objectives, including management
Research and Development, and Quality teams.
of the company’s sustainability initiatives.
Looking ahead, Zoetis has plans to adapt our
ERM program to add focus on the potential
impact of climate change on our business
with support and direction from our CSO.
To learn more about how we nurture the
world and humankind by advancing care
for animals, visit zoetis.com/sustainability
DISCLOSURES Forward-looking statements speak only as such data. Some of our disclosures in this
of the date on which they are made. Zoetis report are based on assumptions due to
This 2022 Sustainability Report includes
expressly disclaims any obligation to update the inherent measurement uncertainties.
forward-looking statements, which reflect the
or revise any forward-looking statement in The selection of different but acceptable
current views of Zoetis about, among other
this 2022 Sustainability Report, whether as measurement techniques can result
things, our progress toward our Driven to Care
a result of new information, future events or in materially different measurements.
aspirations; our sustainability, energy and
otherwise. A further list and description of The precision of different measurement
climate goals, targets and plans; our business
risks, uncertainties and other matters can be techniques may also vary. Metrics are
plans or prospects; expectations regarding
found in our most recent Annual Report on presented based on information available
future operating or financial performance;
Form 10-K, including in the sections thereof at the time. Restatement for prior two years
general industry conditions and competition;
captioned “Forward-Looking Statements and is completed if new information or changes
general economic factors; technological
Factors That May Affect Future Results” and to process is available. The information set
advances and new products; the impact
“Item 1A. Risk Factors,” in our Quarterly Reports forth in this report reflects the 2022 calendar
of pharmaceutical industry regulation and
on Form 10-Q and in our Current Reports year unless otherwise noted and Zoetis
animal healthcare legislation in the United
on Form 8-K. These filings and subsequent reserves the right to update its measurement
States and internationally; and other future
filings are available online at www.sec.gov, techniques and methodologies in the future.
events. These statements are not guarantees
www.zoetis.com, or on request from Zoetis. ZOETIS GLOBAL HEADQUARTERS
of future performance or actions. Forward-
10 Sylvan Way
looking statements are subject to risks and
This 2022 Sustainability Report contains Parsippany, NJ 07054
uncertainties. If one or more of these risks or
non-financial information and metrics that 973-822-7200
uncertainties materializes, or if management’s
are subject to measurement uncertainties sustainability@zoetis.com
underlying assumptions prove to be incorrect,
resulting from limitations inherent in the nature zoetis.com
actual results may differ materially from those
of, and the methods used for determining,
contemplated by a forward-looking statement.
All brands are the property of their respective owners.
© 2023 Zoetis Services LLC. All rights reserved.
