
2
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index
Our journey
toward a better
world for
animals,
people and the
planet.
Contents
Introduction 3 Communities: Care Animals: Innovation in Planet: The Drive to SASB and ESG Index 33
and Collaboration 7 Animal Health 17 Protect our Planet 27
A Letter from our CEO 3 Social Data 38
Sustainability Program Innovating for Our Carbon Footprint 28
Driven to Care Strategy 4 Environment Data 39
Governance 8 Sustainable Solutions 18
Rethinking our
About this Report 4 TCFD Index 41
Caring for our Antimicrobial Packaging 31
About our Company 5
Colleagues 9 Stewardship 21
Zoetis at a Glance 5
Caring for our Access to Veterinary
Honors and Recognition 6 Communities 13 Care in Emerging
Markets 23
Combating Diseases 25
3
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index
A LETTER FROM OUR CEO
Healthy Animals, a Healthy World –
Our Sustainability Journey Continues
I’m pleased to share our progress on how we’re building Animals: Innovation in Animal Health Through the constant vigilance of our Center for
a healthier future for communities, animals and the planet. Transboundary and Emerging Diseases (CTED), Zoetis
From dogs to dairy cows, our bond with animals
monitors and combats infectious diseases that pose the
is intrinsically linked to the health and well-being of
Communities: Care and Collaboration
greatest threat to our world. In 2023, when dozens of
the world’s growing population. We fiercely protect this
Zoetis colleagues make the difference in everything California condors died from highly pathogenic avian
vital interconnectivity through our work to advance
we do. To ensure colleagues feel valued and supported, influenza (HPAI), we partnered with multiple agencies
animal health.
we’ve continued our dedicated focus on diversity, equity by providing 100,000 doses of our H5N1 vaccine to help
To support herd health, we launched a rapid diagnostic
and inclusion (DE&I) in 2023. We’ve also continued preserve this endangered species.
test that helps veterinarians and producers decide how
to make positive progress toward achieving our
to best treat mastitis in dairy cattle, and a new treatment Planet: The Drive to Protect Our Planet
DE&I aspirations.
to protect cattle against resistant gastrointestinal
Championing a sustainable future starts with us. Within
In 2023, we received eight awards for workplace inclusion,
parasites. Vaccines to protect swine and Atlantic salmon
our own operations, Zoetis continues to minimize its
such as the “best” companies for multicultural women
from disease were among the other innovations
carbon footprint by completing 38 carbon abatement
and board of directors, and achieved a 100% index
introduced in 2023.
projects at our sites. We’ve also sourced over 30% of our
score for policies and programs supporting LGBTQ+-
Meanwhile, pet ownership has numerous health benefits total electricity needs from renewable electricity and
friendly workplaces.
for the people who love them; however, pain associated installed additional solar arrays, moving us toward 100%
At Zoetis, we care about each other as well as the
with osteoarthritis (OA) in dogs and cats can disrupt the renewable electricity by 2030.
customers and communities we serve. To support the
important bond between pet owners and their pets.
To advance more sustainable packaging, we replaced
education, well-being, and livelihoods of veterinarians
To relieve that pain and improve quality of life, we
plastic with paperboard for our rabies vaccine packages
and farmers, the Zoetis Foundation distributed $8.3 million
expanded our innovative treatments for OA pain to
at one of our largest manufacturing sites.
in grants in 2023 to benefit the livelihoods of livestock
additional markets.
farmers and the well-being of veterinarians. These are just a few of the ways we are making
Our innovation includes external expertise, such as a
sustainability a reality in animal health for a better future,
What’s more, Zoetis colleagues around the world
Since the start of our journey to drive a healthier, more new research collaboration with Blacksmith Medicines.
with an eye toward continuous improvement. I am proud
generously gave their time to causes that matter to them,
sustainable future, Zoetis has made meaningful and Together, we aim to discover and develop novel
of how far we’ve come on this journey, guided by purpose
logging 16,611 hours of volunteer work and nearing our goal
measurable strides that bolster our purpose to nurture antibiotics and provide new options to treat life-
at every turn. Thank you to our colleagues and partners
of 20,000 hours annually.
the world and humankind by advancing care for animals. threatening infections in livestock, demonstrating our
for leading the way.
As the world’s leading animal health company, we are commitment to reducing the dependency on antibiotic
stewards of the planet we call home and take this classes important in human health. Sincerely,
responsibility to heart. Our colleagues make the
difference in improving the sustainability of our
operations and business practices by supporting our
customers and the communities in which we operate,
all while driving innovations that advance the health and
Kristin Peck
well-being of animals.
CEO, Zoetis
ESG Index
4
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index
Driven to Care Strategy About this Report
Driven to Care formalizes our commitments to customers, This is our fourth year reporting our progress toward our
the communities we serve and our colleagues. Across Driven to Care strategy. In developing our sustainability
three pillars—Communities, Animals and Planet—our programs and environmental, social and governance
sustainability strategy outlines our priorities and the (ESG) disclosures, we considered the disclosure
aspirations we have set to build a healthier future for all. frameworks and guidance of sustainability standards,
Our aspirations provide a roadmap for how Zoetis can such as the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board’s
help make an impact and drive achievement of the 17 (SASB) Health Care: Biotechnology & Pharmaceuticals
United Nations (UN) Sustainable Development Goals industry, the Task Force on Climate-related Financial
(SDGs), 11 of which we directly support. Disclosures (TCFD) and the UN SDGs. We also respond
to the CDP climate change and water security
Driven to Care is our response to the interconnectedness
questionnaires, which are available on the CDP website.
among communities, animals and the planet, in addition
to the sustainability issues that affect every one of us. The discussion and data points in this report reflect the
Overcoming the complex challenges we face requires 2023 calendar year unless otherwise noted. Select case
a holistic approach—one that can benefit from the studies and programs feature information from 2024,
combined expertise and passion we and our up to the time of this report’s publication. Please see
customers share. the Disclosures section for important information
regarding this report.
In 2020, we conducted a materiality assessment to inform
our Driven to Care strategy and to help us strategically
identify the sustainability topics that have an impact on
our business and our stakeholders. Additional information
about the assessment and the results can be found on
page 15 of our 2020 Sustainability Report. We plan to
conduct a new materiality assessment in the near term.
UN SDGs
See our aspirations and progress
for more information.
5
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index
1
About our
Zoetis at a Glance
See our Revenue by Species and Product
Category in our 2023 Annual Report.
Company
4,100
8 7
For over 70 years, Zoetis has supported those who
14,100
raise and care for animals—from veterinary clinics and
major product approximate sales
homes to farms and ranches. We strive to be the most core species
trusted and valued animal health company, shaping the
categories— organization
supported by
future of animal care through our innovation, customer
parasiticides, members (includes
obsession and purpose-driven colleagues, and we care Zoetis—dogs, cats
total number
deeply about helping pets live longer, healthier lives, vaccines, sales representatives
and horses
and improving the health, welfare and productivity of colleagues
dermatology, other and veterinary
of livestock. (collectively
pharmaceutical technical
A Fortune 500 company, Zoetis generated revenue companion animals)
of $8.5 billion in 2023 with approximately 14,100
products, anti- representatives)
and cattle, swine,
colleagues. The company’s leading portfolio and
300 infectives, animal
pipeline of medicines, vaccines, diagnostics and poultry, fish and
technologies make a difference in over 100 countries.
health diagnostics
sheep (collectively
We apply our research and development (R&D),
and medicated feed
manufacturing, and technical expertise to create new livestock)
approximate number
and better animal health advancements that address additives 1,600
the challenges our customers face every day. of comprehensive
product lines
29
approximate number
of R&D colleagues
global manufacturing $614M 100+
sites operated by
us—all dedicated $8.5B
to delivering a R&D investment countries where our
reliable supply of (expense) in 2023 products are sold
revenue in 2023
quality products
1 Data and information are as of December 31, 2023.
6
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index
Our Purpose Our Vision Our Core Beliefs
To nurture the world and humankind by advancing care To be the most trusted and valued animal health company, Our Core Beliefs are part of the promise we make to our
for animals inspires how we are reimagining animal health. shaping the future of animal care through our innovation, customers, investors and partners, and to each other as
We focus on innovations across the continuum of care for customer obsession and purpose-driven colleagues. members of our One Zoetis team.
animals—from prediction and prevention to detection and
treatment of disease. We apply digital technologies and data
analytics to help integrate the continuum of care and create
unique solutions for our customers. We also continue to
develop our highly engaged colleagues who help us advance
sustainability in animal health for a better future.
Honors and
Recognition
When a company is Driven to Care, it shows. We received
several recognitions for our efforts to demonstrate care
for our communities, for animals and for the planet.
Read about these and other
awards and accolades here.
7
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index
COMMUNITIES
Care and
Collaboration
We support and partner with our
colleagues, communities and the people
who care for animals. We achieve more
by working together toward our
common goals.
8
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index
Sustainability Program
Aspiration
Create a Sustainable Governance Framework
Governance
Target 2023 Progress
Integrate sustainability into our strategic planning and • Continued to embed sustainability goals into our key
resource allocation process business functions. Additionally, our Executive Team
members continue to have shared and individual
objectives under our annual incentive plan organized
around our six strategic priorities, including Advance
Sustainability in Animal Health for a Better Future.
Establish an effective approach to external sustainability • Continued to report in line with best practice
disclosures sustainability frameworks, including SASB, TCFD and
CDP, and engage with stakeholders to advance our
program and disclosures. Monitored emerging
regulatory disclosure requirements and enhanced
processes to streamline and centralize reporting.
What Drives Us
The Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee
of the Board oversees the sustainability activities of our
As the world leader in animal health, we are driven by
other Board committees and reports regularly to the full
a singular purpose—to nurture our world and humankind
Board on the progress of the company’s sustainability
by advancing care for animals. Our Driven to Care strategy
initiatives. The Chief Sustainability Officer provides
is rooted in our purpose, and the only way we can be
updates to the full Board at least twice a year and to the
successful in achieving our aspirations is through the
Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee at
unwavering commitment of every colleague, the Executive
each of its meetings. Each committee of the Board also
Team and CEO, and our Board of Directors.
contributes to the oversight of select areas of Zoetis’
sustainability program and strategy and helps inform the
Our Approach
Board’s ultimate oversight.
We’ve established a governance structure to help us Additional information about our corporate governance
deliver on our Driven to Care aspirations—ensuring that practices, including committee charters and other
colleagues work collaboratively and that sustainability governance documents, can be found on the Corporate
priorities are aligned across the company. Our Executive Governance page of our website, as well as in the 2024
Vice President, Corporate Affairs, Communications and proxy statement available on the Investor Relations page
Chief Sustainability Officer, who reports directly to the of our website.
CEO and is a member of our Executive Team, helps define
See the TCFD Index for more information regarding
the sustainability agenda and provides oversight for our
how the Board and management oversee the impacts
initiatives and goals.
of climate change.
While the Chief Sustainability Officer guides our goals
and direction, our sustainability priorities are
embedded throughout the organization, including
key business functions.
9
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index
Caring for our Colleagues
What Drives Us
Aspiration
At Zoetis, our purpose drives everything we do. Being Support our colleagues and cultivate a safe, flexible, diverse and inclusive workplace
a global leader in animal health starts with colleagues
2023 Progress
who share our passion and purpose. It is our colleagues
who make the difference in our success, strengthen our Increase representation of women at the director level
purpose and drive our innovation. We are focused on and above globally to 40% by 2025
Dec 2023 38.0% +6%
creating a workplace that is supportive and inclusive and
where all of our colleagues have an opportunity to thrive. June 2020 32.0%
We believe repetition is the best way to reinforce our
cultural practices, beliefs and values, so Zoetis articulates
Increase representation of people of color at all levels
our purpose and connects our work to our purpose at
in the U.S. to 25% by 2025
Dec 2023 25.2% +4.2%
every opportunity, such as in Global Town Halls, in our
communications and on our website. June 2020 21.0%
Our culture is founded on our Core Beliefs, which are part
of the promise we make to our customers, investors and
Increase representation of Black colleagues in the U.S.
partners, and to each other as One Zoetis community.
to 5% by 2025 Dec 2023 4.6% +0.6%
Our Core Beliefs have helped us become an employer
of choice in animal health, and guide our vision to be June 2020 4.0%
the most trusted and valued animal health company.
Increase representation of Latinx colleagues in the U.S.
to 6% by 2025
Dec 2023 6.9% +1.9%
June 2020 5.0%
Be a top 100 leader for workplace inclusion in key focus • Received eight workplace awards and recognitions.
areas (women, people of color, LGBTQ+) Additional detail can be found on our Awards &
Recognitions webpage.
Commit to diverse slates and interview panels as we hire • Diverse slates and interview panels are required for
for all positions open roles.
For a more detailed report of our U.S. colleague
demographics, see our 2023 EEO-1 report.
10
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index
Our Approach: Advancing Diversity, •Nurturing long-standing partnerships with Colleges of 2
Colleague Resource Groups
Veterinary Medicine and Historically Black Colleges and
Equity and Inclusion (DE&I)
Universities to support leadership and diversity among
future veterinarians.
Our DE&I Strategy
• Supporting organizations that advance DE&I in the
Zoetis’ Colleague Resource Groups (CRGs) spread
At Zoetis, DE&I has always been an important part of who veterinary industry, such as Pride Veterinary Medical
1,150
awareness, foster inclusivity, and make a positive impact
we are as a company and a critical element of our success. Community (PrideVMC), an association for veterinary
global active
on our business and communities. CRGs bring together
We strive to create an environment where colleagues feel professionals who are part of the LGBTQ+ community.
valued and cared for, and understand that fostering We also support the Diversify Veterinary Medicine colleagues with shared experiences, their allies and members across all CRGs
anyone at Zoetis who wants to learn more.
a culture of inclusion helps improve the quality of our Coalition (DVMC), which works to meet the needs
innovation, collaboration and relationships. of underrepresented groups interested in a veterinary
medical education.
Our DE&I strategy has four pillars that anchor and support
our efforts and balance both an internal and external focus: ALIVE50+ ART BELIEVERS DNA
Developing a DE&I Mindset
Culture: We are committed to maintaining an inclusive All Zoetis colleagues are offered DE&I training on inclusion
work environment where every colleague can thrive.
and unconscious bias, as well as valuing differences,
DE&I is embedded in our purpose and Core Beliefs and
avoiding exclusion, and spotting and avoiding
is central to our employer value proposition.
microaggressions. Understanding that DE&I needs to
be embedded throughout the organization, our training
Colleagues: We are committed to a diverse global
for people managers includes modules on inclusive
workforce, and we seek to ensure diversity and equity
of opportunities for our colleagues are part of our internal leadership, narrative storytelling, allyship and courageous Adaptable, Limitless, Asians Rising Together Black Employees Leading The Differently-abled
Insightful, Vital & in Inclusion, Equity, Vision, Neurodiversity Alliance
and external pipeline management strategies. conversations. Building on this educational foundation,
Experienced Education, Recruitment
we offer DE&I educational training and live facilitated
and Strategy
Career: We are committed to innovative talent and
virtual sessions.
development processes that maximize the potential
of our colleagues. Challenges and Opportunities
LaZos PAW WAVES ZECC
Community: We are committed to advancing and
We recognize the value of equity and intersectionality,
supporting DE&I in our business practices, with our
and have constructed a DE&I strategy that embraces
customers, and in the communities in which we live
a holistic approach to representation and focuses
and work.
on tailored approaches to address challenges.
Partnering for Change This approach drives us to address barriers faced
by women in conjunction with struggles experienced
We believe we can make a greater impact on DE&I by
by people within historically marginalized groups,
working collaboratively. We also believe in strength in
including people of color, gender-diverse people, people Latinx at Zoetis Proud and Welcome Women Achieving Vision, Zoetis Early Career
numbers, and have strategically collaborated with various
Excellence and Success Champions
with disabilities, members of the LGBTQ+ community,
organizations to help us create lasting impact inside and
and people at the intersection of one or more of
outside of our organization. Some examples include:
these identities.
• Partnerships with national organizations focused
We understand that advancing diversity and inclusion
on connecting underrepresented students and
is a journey, not a destination. As we evolve as a business
professionals with career opportunities, such as
and with our industry, we continue to prioritize DE&I
INROADS and Minorities in Agriculture, Natural
globally, fostering an environment that amplifies our
Resources and Related Sciences (MANRRS).
culture, unites us as colleagues, advances careers, and
enriches our customer and community relationships.
For information on our initiatives and strategic 2 Zoetis had eight active CRGs as of December 31, 2023. In 2024,
collaborations, visit our DE&I webpage. we added Zoetis Veterans Engage Together & Support (ZVETS).
11
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index
Our Approach: Engaging, Engaging our Colleagues Development and Performance Management: •Emerging Senior Leaders Initiative:
An international-only program that strengthens current
Developing and Supporting Our focus on colleagues has contributed to our ability to • Your Development Matters (YDM): With this platform,
and future leader competencies to prepare a strong
attract and retain a high-performing workforce, with colleagues can leverage trainings and self-assessments
our Colleagues and diverse leadership bench by focusing on skill-
overall colleague engagement, as measured by favorable to define their career aspirations and create individual
based development initiatives for high-potential senior
responses to qualitative questions about alignment with development plans (IDPs). YDM aggregates access to
colleagues in international markets.
Zoetis objectives and employment with Zoetis, at 86%. learning and development offerings, including our
Conducted annually, our colleague engagement survey Leading@Zoetis live-facilitated courses and • Leading@Zoetis: This program provides leaders with
assesses engagement and key drivers enabling eLearnings. AI translations of all content on YDM was tools to effectively assess, coach and lead their teams,
organizational performance: Strategy; Leadership; enabled in 2023, making the tool accessible to and offers supplemental well-being and mentoring
Workplace Climate; Diversity, Equity and Inclusion; our colleagues around the globe. learnings to support development. In 2023, the
Core Beliefs; and Organization Systems and Processes. program was delivered both virtually and in-person,
• Zoetis Digital University: This program was created in
reaching over 2,000 leaders in eight languages around
Results from our colleague survey inform not only our 2023 to provide colleagues with a unique development
the world.
business priorities and focus areas for the company, but opportunity to enhance their data fluency and analytics
also our development of action plans at the functional skills and promote data-driven decision-making. • Frontline Manager Development: In 2023, Zoetis
and people-manager level, helping to ensure improvement launched a global program at our manufacturing sites
• The McKinsey Connected Leaders Academy
opportunities are customized and localized. We review to provide in-person instruction and an opportunity
Partnership: This partnership provides colleagues with
our survey data for any gaps in experiences based on to practice new skills for over 300 frontline managers,
opportunities to participate in leadership development
organization, gender, and/or racial identity to ensure in six different languages, across sites in 14 countries.
programs focused on the unique skills and challenges
we are applying corrective inclusion and equity practices
of Black, Latinx and Asian leaders, and provides • Global Next Generation People Leaders Program:
in our attraction and retention efforts.
networking opportunities across organizations, This nominated program involves 50 high-growth
as well as sponsorship from senior management. individual contributors who we anticipate will take
Developing our Talent
on people-leader responsibilities in the next one-to-
• Zoetis Mentoring Zone: This program matches
At Zoetis, we nurture and develop the talent we have two years, and represents all business lines across
mentees and mentors based on career interests,
to meet our organizational needs. As we continue to 15 countries. In coming years, we plan to double the
experiences, development goals and skills gaps,
innovate and evolve the priorities for our business, helping size of this group and expand the scope of content
and helps drive engagement, fuel learning and
our colleagues develop and grow remains our strategic and opportunities for interaction with current leaders
develop participants’ career aspirations. In 2023,
priority. We support our colleagues through annual talent across the organization.
we launched the WAVES CRG mentoring pod to
reviews, development and leadership training, and
facilitate networking among women at Zoetis
mentorship and coaching. The following are examples Paid Internship Program:
and develop management and leadership skills.
of our key programs.
The Zoetis Summer Internship Program offers students
The Mentoring Zone is continuing to develop
the opportunity to gain real-world experience in our
partnerships with other CRGs across Zoetis.
award-winning culture, grounded in our Core Beliefs, and
Leadership Programs: provides students with an opportunity to gain hands-on
experience in the unique industry of animal health in
• President’s Leadership Development Program: This
a supportive and collaborative environment. Students
year-long program develops high-potential colleagues
in this program work across all of Zoetis’ business
in our U.S. operations and enables colleagues to work
functions, including R&D, Manufacturing and Supply,
on real, business-critical projects outside their job
Commercial Operations, Corporate Functions, and
scope and receive senior leadership mentorship.
Technology and Digitalization.
Participants gain increased leadership confidence and
business acumen.
12
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index
Comprehensive Benefits to Support our Colleagues We periodically conduct pay equity analyses and address Our Approach: Health and Safety Building on our EHS program, we also incorporated
any issues that may be found. Our most recent analysis, OSHA’s VPP performance-based criteria into our internal
In 2023, we introduced the publicly available website
conducted by an external third-party in 2022, did not Our Global Environmental Health and Safety (EHS) Policy health and safety management evaluation program, Zoetis
www.zoetisbenefits.com to enhance the benefits
identify indicators of systemic discrimination in our Standards ensure that we have a best-in-class safety Health and Safety (H&S) Star program, extending the
experience for our U.S.-based colleagues, their families
compensation program.
culture for our colleagues. These standards define EHS principles of the OSHA VPP to our international sites.
and Zoetis candidates by providing comprehensive access
We have a pay-for-performance culture, and we measure performance requirements, procedures and practices for In 2023, we self-certified two additional facilities, Olot,
to our benefits information. This platform includes details
performance against objectives established annually at each site, and help identify risks and preventative Spain and Rathdrum, Ireland as Zoetis H&S Star sites,
on paid parental leave, family benefits, gender transition
the company, organization and individual level. Individual measures. We also ensure our colleagues’ safety by totaling five sites to date. Our Catania, Italy site has
healthcare coverage and more.
objectives focus on two to three critical priorities plus conducting health and safety training, leadership process an ISO 45001: 2018 Occupational Health and Safety
In 2023, our global benefits program included several day-to-day job responsibilities. Managers and colleagues confirmation and injury prevention programs, and Management Systems certification. We plan to expand
other noteworthy features, including: meet annually to discuss performance against objectives. corporate audits and floor-level inspections. When injuries the number of sites that participate in the VPP Star and
• Emotional Well-being: Making mental health a top do occur, our procedures emphasize the need to Zoetis H&S Star programs.
We will continue to review our practices and analyze
investigate the cause, implement action plans and
priority, we conducted global training sessions aimed
employee pay to ensure that we are paying our
mitigate potential recurrence.
at fostering awareness and well-being among
colleagues fairly.
In 2023, Zoetis increased the number
colleagues and managers. Collaboration with CRGs We’ve created a strong EHS culture and mindset of “Home
on a global scale supported the development of our Challenges and Opportunities Safe, Every Day.” Through our FOCUS program, we drive of OSHA VPP Star sites from 4 to 5 ,
comprehensive programming to support mental initiatives such as culture training, leadership involvement,
and the number of Zoetis H&S Star sites
health initiatives. We are continuously monitoring macro trends and process confirmation and colleague recognition.
exploring ways to stay ahead of challenges in attracting from 3 to 5 .
Our colleagues are trained to identify EHS risks, unsafe
• Financial Well-being: We understand the importance
and retaining talent. We remain focused on amplifying our
behaviors and positive observations. We also established
of financial health and offer services like tuition
employer value proposition and inclusive culture in order
a global reporting process to address concerns and collect
reimbursement and student loan repayments. These
to differentiate ourselves as an employer of choice.
benefits contribute to the overall financial well-being leading indicators to support continual improvement. Our commitment to creating safe work environments
We encourage our business leaders to embrace talent
of our colleagues. In the United States, Zoetis participates in the extends to all who work at our facilities. Contractor safety
development and talent acquisition practices that foster
is an important aspect of our site safety programs. Before
Occupational Safety and Health Administration’s (OSHA)
• Physical Well-being: In the U.K., we launched a health a culture of learning and growth. This includes evaluating
they begin work, contractors are screened to ensure they
Voluntary Protection Programs (VPP), an initiative that
screening program to facilitate the early detection applicants’ potential in addition to experience, and
have the relevant qualifications and licenses, and have
recognizes workplaces with a comprehensive safety and
of specific cancers. This initiative underscores our tailoring development needs to support potential growth.
been trained on our contractor safety procedures and
health management system and that demonstrate a
commitment to promoting the physical well-being By employing robust talent practices and fostering an
any potential hazards present at our sites.
commitment to leadership and continuous improvement,
of our colleagues and emphasizes the significance inclusive environment, we can maximize retention and
employee engagement, hazard identification and control,
of proactive health measures. attract talent into a work environment where all
and worksite analysis and training. Applicants undergo
colleagues can thrive.
By integrating these elements into our benefits program,
rigorous on-site evaluation against the program’s
we aim to create a holistic and supportive environment
performance-based criteria, with those demonstrating
that addresses the diverse needs of our colleagues,
exemplary performance receiving the Star recognition.
ultimately fostering their overall well-being and
In 2023, our Independence, Missouri logistics center
satisfaction at Zoetis.
received VPP Star status, increasing our total VPP Star
sites from 4 to 5.
Philosophy on Pay Equity
We are committed to maintaining an inclusive environment
where every colleague can thrive. For years, Zoetis has been
focused on ensuring that our pay practices and processes
include safeguards to ensure that salaries established when
colleagues are hired, promoted, or awarded annual salary
increases consider relevant factors such as experience,
qualifications, performance and applicable market data
to seek pay equity across our colleagues. See the Social Data table
for additional metrics.
13
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index
Caring for Our
Zoetis Foundation
Communities
A grant to World Food Program USA
provided access to financial and
veterinary services to support
The Zoetis Foundation builds on Zoetis’ purpose
livestock farmers in Ethiopia
by advancing opportunities for veterinarians
and Kenya.
and farmers around the globe through three
grant-making priorities: education, well-being
What Drives Us
and livelihoods. The Foundation is committed
$7.0 Million to disbursing $35 million in grants from 2021
At Zoetis, we look to give back to those who raise and
A grant to the Shanti Project’s
until the end of 2025 in support of these
care for animals by helping address some of the most
invested in communities Veterinary Mental Health Initiative
priorities, as well as humanitarian aid and
pressing challenges that they face, while also supporting
provided evidence-based, culturally-
through Zoetis Inc. matching gifts. The Foundation’s work is
animals in need. Zoetis’ corporate community efforts focus
aligned and multi-level mental health
on initiatives that support veterinary professionals through corporate giving in 2023 primarily focused across six strategic regions,
support services to veterinarians
including Africa, Australia, Brazil, China, the
continuing education as well as initiatives that support
by expert clinicians.
European Union (EU)/the United Kingdom
animals and their owners by providing expanded access to
(UK) and the United States. Examples of grants
veterinary care and disaster relief. The Zoetis Foundation
funded by the Foundation in 2023 include:
advances opportunities for veterinarians and farmers
$8.3 Million The Zoetis Colleague Resource Group
through education resources, well-being support, and
(CRG) Philanthropy Grants Program
livelihood initiatives. We also encourage our purpose-
distributed through Zoetis
awarded grants to eight organizations
driven colleagues to volunteer their time and share their
Foundation grants in 2023 proposed by the Zoetis CRGs.
expertise in local communities.
Foundation Impact
Approximate Progress toward the Foundation's
Total grants Number of Number of
number of $35 million by the end of 2025 goal
disbursed ($ countries grant initiatives
scholarships
million) impacted executed
awarded
2023 Grants $8.3 500+ 19 28
Grants to Date
$14.9 1,300+ 31 57
(2021-2023)
Learn more about the Zoetis Foundation.
14
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index
Aspiration
Support our communities
Target 2023 Progress
Contribute 2,500 volunteer days (20,000 hours) • 16,611 hours of volunteer time reported by our
annually in the communities we serve colleagues, 83% of our stated goal. This is an 81%
increase from hours reported in 2022.
Our Approach
Colleagues Giving Back
At Zoetis, our colleagues are committed to making
a positive impact, not only for animals and those who Volunteering with World Vets, Nicole
care for them, but also for our communities. Zoetis Roecker, Territory Account Business
provides paid time off for colleagues to volunteer their Manager, combined her passion for
time and participate in activities to help nonprofit travel and helping animals by spaying,
organizations and those in need. Through the Zoetis neutering, and treating animals with
Foundation, we also support a U.S. Matching Gifts broken bones and other injuries in the
program and a U.S. Dollars for Doers program. Galapagos Islands.
We seek to create opportunities for our colleagues
The Zoetis U.S. Petcare Brand
to engage in community giving, while connecting with
Marketing team participated in a team-
one another. In July 2023, we launched our first annual
building activity while doing good in
Purpose Month—a month to celebrate and connect
the community. They spent the day
to our purpose of nurturing the world and humankind
planting and mulching at Willowwood
by advancing care for animals. Colleagues across
Arboretum in New Jersey, a public
the globe participated by sharing their own purpose,
park that relies on volunteers
recognizing their colleagues and customers, and
to maintain the gardens and
tracking over 2,000 volunteer hours throughout
meadows year-round.
July and August, a 370% increase from July and
August 2022.
Recognizing the important work
See a video of our first Purpose Month. of veterinarian technicians and the
challenges they face, Zoetis colleagues
Challenges and Opportunities
distributed wellness bags throughout
Kansas, Missouri and Nebraska. The
Our hybrid work environment has required us to take
bags contained wellness items and
a new approach to organizing community events.
resources about mental health,
With the return of in-person volunteering, together
including contact information for
with our efforts to engage colleagues through
Not One More Vet, a nonprofit
company-wide initiatives, such as Purpose Month,
organization that focuses on
volunteer time off and U.S. Dollars for Doers, we are
supporting veterinary professionals’
making progress toward achieving our aspiration.
mental health and a recipient of
We will continue to build on the success of Purpose
a Zoetis Foundation grant.
Month and other moments throughout the year that
encourage colleague participation and volunteerism.
15
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index
The Zoetis Foundation’s Approach Our Approach
Aspiration
Recognizing the high debt loads for veterinary graduates Zoetis has also invested corporate funding in professional
Support veterinary professionals
and the lack of racial and ethnic diversity in the profession, programs that train veterinarians and help them gain the
Target 2023 Progress
the Zoetis Foundation funds grants providing scholarships skill sets needed to succeed in their jobs. In the United
to the next generation of veterinary professionals. These States, Zoetis partners with the American Animal Hospital
Provide at least $1 million in scholarships to veterinary • The Zoetis Foundation provided grants of $3.0 million
organizations include the American Association of Association to execute the Beyond Medicine Workshop,
students annually, focusing on underrepresented groups for scholarships to support 500+ students. In the
Veterinary Medical Colleges (AAVMC), American providing veterinarians and veterinarian technicians with
where possible United States, 58% of students supported by the
Veterinary Medical Foundation, American Association of continuing education opportunities focused on skills such
Zoetis Foundation/AAVMC Veterinary Student
Equine Practitioners Foundation for the Horse, American as communicating with clients, overcoming professional
Scholarship Program are members of traditionally
Association of Bovine Practitioners Foundation and challenges and caring for their own well-being. In Spain,
marginalized or underrepresented communities and
American Association of Swine Veterinarians Foundation. Zoetis supports Ganadería en Femenino—or Women
19% identify as LGBTQ+.
in Livestock—a program that aims to increase visibility
of women livestock farmers, veterinarians, and others
in the field, by providing training, communication support, Provide access to professional programs for veterinarians • Zoetis continued to invest in professional programs in
and recognition of their work. in the markets where we have a presence 100% of our markets where we have a physical presence,
through Zoetis-led programs and in partnerships with
Challenges and Opportunities
external organizations.
Limited access to trained veterinarians and veterinarian
technicians who can provide high-quality care, for both
pet owners and livestock farmers, continues to be a Scholarships funded by the Zoetis Foundation in 2023:
challenge, especially in areas of the world where pet
ownership and modern livestock farming are growing. The Zoetis Foundation/AAVMC Veterinary Student Scholarship Program
Supporting the veterinary profession and helping provides financial support to veterinary students, addressing the issue of
overcome this challenge is a key area of focus. Grant student debt and the need to foster diversity in the veterinary profession.
funding from the Zoetis Foundation helps to expand the This scholarship awarded 263 recipients with $7,000 each through
workforce by increasing access to mental wellness 2023 funding.
programming for veterinarians to reduce attrition, funding
scholarship programs and supporting debt relief
initiatives. In addition, Zoetis’ commercial offerings strive
to improve clinic efficiencies with advanced technology,
The Zoetis Foundation/AAVMC Dr. Catherine A. Knupp Scholarship
and Zoetis’ continued industry research and collaboration
encourages students to pursue research in veterinary science and is named
helps to address the underlying issues behind these
in honor of Dr. Catherine A. Knupp, who retired as Zoetis’ President of Research
challenges.
& Development in 2021. Commemorating her many contributions to scientific
innovation as a veterinary scientist and leader in human and animal health
research and development, the scholarship awarded two recipients with
a $25,000 scholarship through 2023 funding.
In 2023, the Zoetis Foundation started funding a grant to the Kansas
State University Foundation: U.S.-China Center for Animal Health, College
of Veterinary Medicine supporting veterinary training for six Chinese
veterinary medicine students who will return to China with knowledge to
support the development of the veterinary profession in their home country.
16
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index
Our Approach
Aspiration
Community Impact Efforts
As the world’s leading animal health company, we are Expand veterinary care access to populations in need
dedicated to expanding veterinary care access to
We partnered with Adopt a Pet Target 2023 Progress
populations and communities in need and to providing
to make a nearly $1 million
care for animals impacted by disasters. To ensure our
Annually report on the number of pet owners reached • Zoetis’ efforts impacted approximately 202,000 pet
investment to improve access
efforts meet the needs of local communities, we empower
through community programs and in-kind contributions owners in need.
to resources for pets, shelters,
our colleagues and local teams to take action in ways that
rescues and veterinary
best fit their market.
healthcare teams across
the country. Aspiration
Provide animal care in disaster relief
Target 2023 Progress
We supported vaccinating
cats and dogs against rabies
Annually report on the number of animals cared for • Zoetis’ efforts impacted approximately 91,000
across provinces in Indonesia
through community programs and in-kind contributions animals affected by disasters.
in partnership with Royal
Canin Indonesia on World
Rabies Day.
We co-hosted a clinic with
American Humane in Florida
to provide the underserved
community with free wellness
exams and veterinary services,
along with information about
preparing for disasters
and pet preparedness kits.
We donated in-kind
contributions including
parasiticides, antibiotics,
ointments and other supplies
to assist in the rescue mission
of equine populations
following the devastating
earthquake in Morocco.
17
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index
ANIMALS
Innovation in
Animal Health
We use our expertise in animal health
to solve sustainability challenges facing
animals and people.
18
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index
Innovating for Sustainable
Aspiration
Provide products and services that enable productive and sustainable livestock farms that preserve animal welfare
Solutions
Target 2023 Progress
Innovate to create and drive adoption of key sustainable • Advanced our investment strategy for products
animal health solutions supporting our customers’ sustainability goals.
• Collaborated across the value chain to support the role
What Drives Us In the face of growing world human populations and rapid of animal health improvements in sustainability through
data and systems support.
environmental change, farmers need innovative solutions
As the world’s population grows to approximately 10 billion to produce more food with fewer resources. To meet
people by 20503, as projected by the UN, some of our these demands, we must ensure animals are healthy and Equip our customers with innovative products to support • Launched innovative products in key sustainability
greatest challenges are emerging at the intersection of productive. Animal health can also play a key role in both their ambitious environmental, social and animal welfare opportunity areas including diagnostics, vaccines and
human, animal, environmental and economic health. reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from livestock goals parasiticides.
We work in that intersection and offer solutions to some of systems and improving food security. Healthy animals are
these significant global challenges impacting our more productive, have reduced mortality rates and
Better Future Framework As we continue to understand the incentives and drivers
customers and those who care for animals. By enhancing generate lower emissions per unit of food produced.
for sustainable solutions through the lens of our global
the health and welfare of livestock and pets, we contribute According to the 2023 HealthforAnimals (HfA) Animal Our Better Future Framework leverages the UN SDGs
customers, we will optimize the application of the Better
to the economic well-being of farmers and communities Health and Sustainability: A Global Data Analysis report, to facilitate recognition of the benefits livestock provide
Future Framework evaluation as part of our innovation
and the mitigation of agricultural emissions. We also help a fall in disease levels of ten percentage points could lead for food security, human health and the ecosystem, prioritization process. We’ll also evaluate the sustainability
bolster global food security and improve the quality of life to a decrease of more than 800 million metric tons and positions sustainable and efficient livestock attributes of our current and pipeline products against this
of our pets, deepening the human-animal bond. of GHG emissions annually.7 production as an environmental solution. framework and include this evaluation in our investment
decision making.
We strive to incorporate key environmental, social and
Our Approach
Livestock supports the livelihoods of
farmer economic considerations into our new product
at least 1.7 billion people worldwide.4 evaluation process, and are focused on driving Better
We bring farmers, pet owners and veterinarians
Future Framework outcomes in these four interconnected
innovative solutions that provide them with the tools they
key benefit areas: better animal welfare, better health,
need to raise and care for animals. Our products and
better environment and better lives.
services support our livestock customers in their essential
Over 20% of animal production losses
work toward sustainable food production and support In 2023, our R&D team piloted the inclusion of
are linked to animal diseases—which our companion animal customers by addressing unmet sustainability evaluations into our innovation prioritization
medical needs as they deepen their bonds with pets. process for livestock species. New product proposals
5
impact natural resources.
Our areas of innovation include developing new vaccines, receive a Better Future Framework evaluation, which
enhancing diagnostics and genetic tests, exploring new is assessed during the investment prioritization process.
classes of animal-only antibiotics, and advancing novel
Pet ownership has numerous health solutions for the management of infectious disease.
benefits, including lowering the risk
of cardiovascular disease and stress,
6
and promoting social interaction.
3 World Population Projections by UN Prospects Revision. Our World 5 Animal Health and Welfare: A Critical Component of Sustainable
in Data. Development. World Organization for Animal Health.
4 In Brief: The Roadmap to End Hunger by 2030. Food and Agriculture 6 Research: Understanding the Human-Animal Bond, Human Animal Bond
Organization of the United Nations. Research Institute.
7 Animal Health and Sustainability: The Connection. Health for Animals.
19
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index
Innovations for a Better Future Advancing Sustainable Agriculture According to the NMPF, cooperatives and processors
• VetScan Rapid Mastigram +™ Test: Mastitis is a painful Featured 2023 Innovations Through Strategic Collaborations representing 80% of the U.S. milk supply participate in the
inflammatory disease of the mammary gland, and a key FARM ES program9, and therefore, the Zoetis and DMI
risk for dairy cows. Launched in international markets, • Expanded Fostera® Gold PCV MH to additional We believe that overcoming complex challenges requires partnership represents a significant, while yet preliminary
our Vetscan Mastigram+ rapid diagnostic test helps global markets to protect swine against major strategic collaborations which benefit from the combined analysis of, the opportunity to understand levers that can
veterinarians and producers decide how to best treat production-limiting diseases including porcine expertise and passion we and our customers share. We improve the efficiency and environmental impact of milk
mastitis. By enabling timely identification of the circovirus and mycoplasmal pneumonia. proactively seek partnerships to drive change in alignment production. The work completed in 2023 and continuing
bacterial cause of mastitis, farmers and veterinarians with UN SDG 17: Partnerships for the Goals. into 2024 will support the understanding of health and
can improve the welfare and productivity of dairy cows
• In Australia, thIme Iamgem cuanne gRoe ahdeyre Guidelines,
genetics as levers for environmental stewardship as they
a Zoetis-led innovative national vaccination Climate-Smart Commodities: In December 2022, a
and ensure the appropriate use of antimicrobials. anticipate the launch of the updated FARM ES platform
program for beef cattle, was adopted into the collaboration between Texas A&M University-Kingsville,
in 2024.
• Valcor™: Parasite resistance is a growing challenge that Australian Beef Sustainability Framework. Leachman Cattle of Colorado, LLC., B.R. Cutrer, Inc. and
threatens the welfare and productivity of cattle. The Zoetis was one of 71 projects selected as a grant recipient Beef Roundtables: Comprised of beef producers,
• Launched ALPHA JECT® Moritella in Norway,
negative effects exerted by resistant parasites increase by the USDA’s Partnerships for Climate-Smart processors, allied services and industries, retail companies,
a vaccine that protects Atlantic salmon against
the environmental impact of cattle farming. Zoetis Commodities to reduce methane production in the U.S. civil society, consulting, and national or regional
winter ulcers, a disease that has become a
recently launched Valcor in the United States (also beef herd. Leveraging the expertise of our Precision roundtables, the Global Roundtable for Sustainable Beef
major welfare issue in recent years as new
branded as Dectomax V® in Australia and New Animal Health (PAH) team, the program provides advances sustainability of the beef value chain through
bacterial variants emerged that escape the
Zealand) to help veterinarians and producers protect mentorship, genetic technologies, and support to leadership, science and multi-stakeholder engagement
protection afforded by other commercially
cattle against resistant gastrointestinal parasites. underserved8 producers and first-generation beef cattle and collaboration. Our Zoetis team actively participates on
available vaccines.
the executive committee and in working groups to
ranching start-ups—ultimately helping them genetically
• Librela® (bedinvetmab injection) and Solensia™
advance sustainable beef production. We also participate
select cattle for reduced feed consumption and lower
(frunevetmab injection): Osteoarthritis (OA)
in Regional Beef Roundtables in Brazil, Canada, New
methane impact. To date, we have collaborated to install
is a painful chronic condition of the joints that can
Zealand and the United States, where we leverage our
animal feed intake, methane emission and weighing
severely affect the health and well-being of dogs and
colleagues’ technical expertise to support the
equipment at multiple locations with data collection
cats worldwide. OA pain can disrupt the important
development of regional sustainability goals, sector
beginning in 2024.
bond between pet owners and their pets. With the
targets, tools and resources that the full value chain can
expansion of Librela and Solensia to additional markets Dairy Management Inc. (DMI): Our PAH team has
adopt and utilize.
in 2023, including launching Librela in the United collaborated with DMI and the Ruminant Farm Systems
States, we can continue to provide these innovative (RuFaS) modeling team to augment the development
products to support pets’ welfare and the human- and testing of the RuFaS on-farm emissions model.
animal bond by relieving pain and improving their We provide animal health and genetics data as well as
quality of life. supportive research expertise to enable comprehensive
modeling of dairy farm carbon footprints. This model
will be used as the basis for the FARM Environmental
Stewardship (ES) platform, with scientific support
provided by DMI and, managed by the National Milk
Producers Federation (NMPF) to develop emissions
inventories and perform scenario analysis of the
environmental impact of proposed on-farm
management changes.
8 Underserved producers is defined by the USDA to generally include
beginning farmers, socially disadvantaged farmers, veteran farmers,
and limited resource farmers; women farmers and producers growing
specialty crops are generally also included in these categories.
9 Evolving on Farm Greenhouse Gas Emission tracking in the U.S. to support
path to GHG neutrality. National Milk Producers Federation.
20
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index
Challenges and Opportunities
Animal Care and Welfare
Livestock are continually threatened by disease and
Zoetis is dedicated to helping animals live longer, ill-health, which ultimately affects the economic,
healthier lives through the discovery and development environmental and social sustainability of animal
of breakthrough medicines and therapies. Animal-based agriculture. Production losses due to disease not only
research in the pharmaceutical industry remains critical decrease the economic viability of producers, but also
in the discovery, evaluation, and regulatory processes increase the environmental impact of food production by
that lead to the development of products designed to increasing greenhouse gas emissions intensity. Fluctuating
save or improve animal lives throughout the world. We food prices due to animal disease outbreaks, such as
remain fully committed to the development and use of Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza, show how disease
scientifically validated alternative testing methods effects ultimately trickle down to consumers,
deemed acceptable to regulatory authorities and that potentially hampering their ability to access healthy,
do not compromise patient or user safety or the quality animal protein.
effectiveness of our medicines. We ensure that all use
Global recognition of the critical role that animal health
of animals globally is reviewed for scientific merit,
can play in reducing GHG emissions has driven industry
considers the 3R’s—Replacement, Reduction and
collaboration and alignment in 2023. Our partnerships and
Refinement—and is conducted in an ethical way in
collaborations help livestock farmers raise healthy animals
accordance with our Policy on Animal Care and Welfare.
which are, in turn, more productive, sustainable animals.
To help advance innovation in this space, we have an
As the leader in animal health and genetics, we see
internal program called Transition Away from Animal
opportunities to provide data-derived insights and related
Testing (TAFAT). Through this program, we are focused
decision-making tools to help livestock farmers and
on developing and validating in vitro (in lab) tests
ranchers achieve their sustainability goals by reducing
as alternatives to traditional in vivo (in animal) tests
methane emissions and continuing to enhance their
required by regulatory agencies for product release.
environmental stewardship. Looking ahead, we are
As part of this program, our team in Japan has reduced
continuing to identify important collaborations to advance
their use of animals for regulatory required vaccine
industry alignment to reduce emissions.
release testing by more than 90% from 2008
to 2023.
Refer to our website for more information
on our Animal Care and Welfare program.
21
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index
Antimicrobial Stewardship
Aspiration
Promote a preventive approach to animal health with positive implications on human health
Target 2023 Progress
What Drives Us In the United States, we supported the FDA’s Guidance for Promote responsible use of antibiotics through technical • Continued to collaborate with global stakeholders to
Industry 263, which took effect in June 2023 and education, introducing antibiotic alternatives, and promote responsible use of antibiotics.
We recognize that animal and human health are transitioned all remaining over-the-counter products developing diagnostic and digital tools • Launched new diagnostic tools to support better
interdependent. We advocate for taking a One Health containing medically important antibiotics to prescription identification of pathogens in dairy cows.
approach to the responsible use of antibiotics across status. We supported our customers through the transition
human and veterinary medicine, understanding that period to help ensure the health and well-being of the Innovate around antimicrobial resistance to reduce • Began a collaboration to discover and develop novel
healthy animals help reduce the risk of infectious zoonotic animals in their care. In the EU, we are engaged in multi- the dependency on antibiotic classes shared with antibiotics for animal health.
diseases that can pass between animals and people. stakeholder efforts, including the European Platform for the human health
Responsible use of antibiotics in food-producing animals Responsible Using of Medicines in Animals in which we are
makes a difference in being able to meet the challenge of actively involved via our industry trade association
maintaining and increasing food safety and food security. AnimalhealthEurope. Through this effort, we are promoting Innovating with a Focus on Prevention
With few alternatives today for treating life-threatening best-practice frameworks for the responsible use of
We support reducing the need to use antibiotics by
bacterial infections in animals, antibiotics are essential veterinary medicines to ensure better prevention and control
encouraging a preventative approach through good
to animal health and welfare. of animal diseases and to reduce the need to use antibiotics.
animal husbandry, nutrition and vaccination programs.
Our programs and innovations emphasize helping our
Our Approach Providing Technical Education for Our Customers
customers prevent disease—through vaccines targeted
Across the globe, our technical service veterinarians and
against viral and bacterial pathogens, for example—which
Our vision is a world where veterinary antibiotics are used
field representatives support our customers by sharing
can help reduce the need to use antibiotics for treatment.
responsibly under the supervision of a veterinarian, and
knowledge on responsible use of our antibiotic medicines,
where they maintain their value as a therapeutic tool. We recognize that, despite the best preventative care,
including proper indications, dosages, routes of
Veterinary professionals should be involved in all disease can still occur, and treatment may be needed.
administration and the importance of withdrawal periods,
decisions about the use of antibiotic medicines in animals Alongside our approach to novel anti-infective solutions,
as well as educating customers on practices such as
to protect animal and human health, to assure the safety we’re also exploring additional diagnostics,
vaccination and other husbandry protocols that can help
of the food supply, and to help reduce the risk of immunomodulators, and other pathways as well as
prevent common diseases. We do this through regional-
resistance. Our commitment to responsible antibiotic precision animal health tools, utilizing digital technologies
specific campaigns and on-demand resources. Highlights
use in animals includes: and data analytics that can help livestock producers make
of 2023 efforts include:
earlier and more informed healthcare decisions for their
• Advocate for the health of animals and veterinary
• In the United States, we finalized revisions to labelling
animals. According to the World Health Organization
involvement
for the reclassification of Zoetis’ remaining over-the- (WHO)10, the development and use of vaccines is a key
• Innovate with a focus on prevention counter products to prescription only. The U.S.
strategy to combat antimicrobial resistance. As vaccines
Livestock team has been educating customers about
• Collaborate across our value chain induce highly targeted, multi-faceted and preventative
this change and the importance of a veterinary-client
immunity, they are less likely to induce resistance
As part of our commitment to responsibly using patient relationship. compared to antibiotics.11 In 2023, Zoetis launched its
antibiotics in animals, we do not sell antibiotics medically • We conducted information sharing sessions with ProtivityTM vaccine in Canada and Mexico, which protects
important for human health, as classified by the U.S. FDA,
100+ colleagues across the Asia-Pacific region beef and dairy calves against respiratory disease caused
for growth promotion in animals anywhere in the world.
to help facilitate customer education on by Mycoplasma bovis (M. bovis), a type of bacteria.
This change took effect in the EU at the beginning of
antimicrobial stewardship.
2006, in the United States at the beginning of 2017 and in
• The Zoetis China Reference Lab team conducted
the remaining markets we operate in 2020. 10 Leveraging Vaccines to Reduce Antibiotic Use and Prevent Antimicrobial
trainings on diagnosis and treatment of bacterial
Resistance. World Health Organization.
infectious diseases in dogs and cats for clinical vets
For additional information, see our Position on 11 Quantifying the Benefits of Vaccines in Combating Antimicrobial Resistance.
from 15 cities.
Responsible Use of Antibiotics in Animals. Eurohealth Observer.
22
Collaborations and Partnerships
Reducing the dependency
Our industry is on track or ahead of the 25 goals set out We collaborate in a One Health approach, working with
in the Roadmap to Reducing the Need for Antibiotics for
leaders from the veterinary and human health professions, on antibiotic classes shared
achievement by 2025.12 Industry progress during 2023
food industry, and public health to advance the
included: with human health
responsible use of antibiotics and preserve animal health
• An estimated $6.3 billion invested in research and welfare.
As an example of our commitment to reduce the
and development
HealthforAnimals (HfA): As a member of the global trade dependency on antibiotic classes shared with human
• 71 new vaccines brought to market, with close association, HealthforAnimals, we are working with our health, Zoetis began a research collaboration with
to half for bacterial disease peers to achieve the organization’s Roadmap to Reducing Blacksmith Medicines to discover and develop novel
• 28 new diagnostic tools brought to market the Need for Antibiotics, which outlines how the need for antibiotics for animal health. Through this research,
antibiotics can be reduced by improving prevention, we aim to ultimately provide new options for our
• Over $25 million in veterinary scholarships and
diagnosis and treatment of animal disease. In 2023, customers to treat life-threatening infections in
research grants
HfA launched its latest progress report along with data livestock.
• 93 new scientific publications that improve analysis highlighting how antibiotic use in animals does
understanding of veterinary pathogens and not equate to resistance in human health.
antimicrobial resistance
AMR Surveillance Monitoring Program: For over 25 years,
we’ve been conducting surveillance for antimicrobial
resistance (AMR) in pathogens that threaten the health
of animal species to help preserve the efficacy of
antibiotics. Since we began the program in 1998, it has
grown to include 29 bacterial pathogens from five animal
species through the participation of 32 veterinary
diagnostic laboratories in the United States and Canada.
International Consortium for Antimicrobial Stewardship
in Agriculture (ICASA): Through our relationship with the
ICASA, our cattle veterinarians are collaborating with
researchers at Kansas State University on studies that
could help cattle farmers and ranchers improve animal
management and well-being through more accurate
information about health risks for bovine respiratory
disease, and ultimately encourage more targeted
antimicrobial use.
Challenges and Opportunities
AMR is a critical healthcare issue, which is driven by
Livestock Antibiotic Sales ($M)
a variety of complex, diverse and cross-sectorial factors.
We must recognize that this is not an issue limited by
species or location. AMR affects animals, people and the
planet, and can only be addressed by understanding the
intersection of all three. Through investing in vaccines,
diagnostic tests and other animal health technologies which
protect animals from the threat of disease, Zoetis continues
to do its part to reduce the need for antimicrobials.
euneveR
latoT
fo
tnecreP
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index
Alternatives to Antibiotics
We are committed to veterinarians having viable
treatment options to ensure the health and welfare of the
animals in their care. Our innovation approach includes
seeking new classes of antibiotics for veterinary use only
and exploring novel, non-antibiotic, anti-infective
solutions. Our scientists are focused on developing
potential solutions for the treatment and control of
common disease challenges, including necrotic enteritis
in poultry, E.coli and swine respiratory disease in pigs,
as well as mastitis, metritis, liver abscesses, and bovine
respiratory disease in dairy and/or beef cattle. Today,
several of these projects continue through our research
and development process to find the best solutions for
our customers that also support our commitment to
reduce the dependency on antibiotic classes shared
with human health.
Livestock Antibiotic Sales as a Percent of
Total Revenue
20%
19%
18%
17%
15%
14%
13%
11%
12%
10%
FY19 FY20 FY21 FY22 FY23
$1,198 $1,145 $1,090 $951 $940
Total revenue from livestock antibiotics, which includes
injectables and medicated feed additives, has decreased
due to many factors. Among these is Zoetis’ commitment
to bringing innovation focused on prevention (e.g.,
vaccines), genetic testing, diagnostics, data analytics and
supporting our customers with responsible use education.
Changing regulations in key markets and generic
competition have also contributed to this impact. 12 Roadmap to Reducing the Need for Antibiotics. HealthforAnimals.
23
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index
Access to Veterinary Care
Aspiration
Grow access to veterinary care in emerging markets
in Emerging Markets
Through our A.L.P.H.A. and A.L.P.H.A. Plus initiatives with focus in Africa, by 2025 we will:
Target 2023 Progress
Train 100,000 farmers, veterinary professionals and lab • Trained over 35,000 farmers, veterinarians, para-
technicians veterinarians, distributors and lab technicians.1
Our Approach
What Drives Us
Increase women trainees to 50% of trainees • 23% of in-person trainees are women based on a 12-
Our work to improve livestock health and positively month rolling average.1
In line with our purpose to nurture the world and
impact farmers’ livelihoods in Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA)
humankind by advancing care for animals, we support Treat 10 million cows with positive implications on • Treated 12.7 million cows, exceeded goal by 27%.2,3
launched in 2017 through our African Livestock
customers in underserved rural communities working to
smallholder livelihoods, food security and the environment
Productivity and Health Advancement (A.L.P.H.A.)
predict, prevent, detect, and treat illness in animals and to
initiative, co-funded with the Bill & Melinda Gates
address unmet medical needs. Through this support, we
Foundation (BMGF). The five-year initiative began in
can expand access to preventative tools and early Treat 200 million chickens with positive implications on • Treated 260 million chickens, exceeded goal by 30%.2,4
Uganda, Nigeria and Ethiopia, and later expanded into
detection of disease, reducing the need for antimicrobials
smallholder livelihoods, food security and the environment
Tanzania. It strived for gender equality in animal health
in livestock.
training and was anchored on three pillars: veterinary
medicines and services, veterinary laboratory networks,
and training and education. 1 Progress shown is to date through November 2023 based on a 2019 baseline.
The A.L.P.H.A. initiative came to a close in August 2022, 2 Progress shown is to date through November 2023 based on a 2020 baseline.
and all activities were transitioned to the commercial 3 Assumption used that every cow receives at least two doses (treatment and prevention).
operations of the broader SSA. In 2023, with continued 4 In 2021, we revised our assumptions from every chicken receiving at least three doses to five doses (treatment and prevention) due to the higher rate
support from the BMGF, we launched a new initiative that of adoption of broader vaccinations. We recalculated 2020 data to reflect this change, and it is reflected in the reported numbers to date.
scales up our initial A.L.P.H.A. efforts. The new five-year
A.L.P.H.A. Plus has an extended focus to cattle and
Access to an Expanded Portfolio Sustainable Diagnostic Services
aquaculture in addition to poultry and expanded
geographical coverage to seven additional countries We provide veterinarians and farmers throughout SSA A lack of access to diagnostic and veterinary services in
in SSA: Kenya, Rwanda, Ghana, Zambia, Zimbabwe, with tools to help them raise healthier and more SSA may result in incorrect diagnoses, which negatively
Senegal and Ivory Coast. A.L.P.H.A. Plus is also designed productive animals. Our livestock continuum of care impacts animal welfare and farmers’ livelihoods and
to be ‘gender intentional,’ which means identifying and portfolio includes products to predict, prevent, detect, increases the risk of antimicrobial resistance developing.
addressing gender inequalities, gender-based constraints, and treat diseases for poultry, ruminants and swine. Through A.L.P.H.A. Plus, we funded the development
and inequitable norms and dynamics, then taking steps By the end of 2023, 132 of our products received full of 16 partner veterinary diagnostic labs, to date, to serve
to address them. In this new initiative, we aim to make regulatory approval for commercialization in 11 countries, farmers and veterinarians for livestock productivity
significant progress against three major areas over the and an additional 16 new product registrations were diseases. We are currently collaborating with nine of
next five years: submitted in A.L.P.H.A. Plus SSA countries. These efforts these partners to strengthen laboratory capacity-building
will result in expanded regional access to quality products. efforts. To help further guide responsible use of
• Increased access to an expanded portfolio of quality
veterinary products, we plan to expand diagnostic
veterinary medicines, vaccines and services
partnerships to five new markets over the next few years.
• Expand sustainable diagnostic services,
with data-driven decision making
Initial A.L.P.H.A. Countries A.L.P.H.A. Plus Expansion
• Scaling of the last-mile service delivery network
24
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index
Training and Education Challenges and Opportunities
Training and education are important in SSA to help
We recognize that our target of 50% women trainees
empower local communities to improve livestock health
for countries in scope doesn’t reflect the gender
and welfare and to ensure that veterinary medicines are
demographics of the animal health and farming sector
effective through correct storage and administration to
in the region. In this region there are sensitivities related
animals. Through the over 35,000 individuals trained to
to gender equality based on typical roles assigned to
date, the estimated extended reach of our trainings is over
household members, cultural norms, income allocation
1.75 million people through a Train-the-Trainer approach.13
within families and accessibility of women to trainings
Training courses have been tailored to address training
(financing, travel, child-care, data access, etc.).
gaps identified by regional surveys to ensure maximum
The inclusion of women into the farming and veterinary
relevance to stakeholders with the aim of increasing
professionals sector also varies significantly by country,
participation. We offer 23 courses in Zoetis Learning
region and species. Moreover, digital trainings might have
Academy, an e-learning platform, to provide targeted
limitations for inclusion of women due to lack of
training across the continuum of animal healthcare to
smartphone ownership and cell phone data.
upskill distributors, veterinarians and paraprofessionals,
and drive sustainable growth. While we have gained experience encouraging women’s
participation in A.L.P.H.A. Plus activities, there is a lot
As a registered continuing professional development
to learn to become fully gender intentional. A dedicated,
(CPD) provider in Kenya, part of the existing government
multi-phase gender intentional strategy is therefore
scheme to upgrade professional skills, Zoetis held its first
underway in conjunction with our Outcomes Research
CPD training for Udder Health in 2023. We plan to
team with expansion planned for 2024. Activities,
leverage the positive outcomes of this training in other
to date include stakeholder consultation, key opinion
countries as their CPD schemes begin to mature.
leader consultation, a social listening study and
partnership with key training organizations.
13 Assumes every trained person trains 50 other people.
25
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index
Combating Diseases
Aspiration
Combat diseases that pose the greatest risk to animals and humans
Leverage the Zoetis Center for Transboundary and Emerging Diseases to develop vaccines for high-impact emerging
diseases globally
What Drives Us
Target 2023 Progress
A One Health approach recognizes that the health of Invest in R&D for emerging infectious diseases • Expanded our research capabilities for transboundary
animals, humans and the environment are interdependent. animal diseases and emerging infectious diseases.
According to the WHO, approximately 75% of emerging
infectious diseases (EIDs) have an animal origin.14 As part Provide our innovative vaccines to relevant markets via • Supported endangered species protection programs.
of our commitment to a healthier, more sustainable future, tenders or other go-to-market pathways • Collaborated to support One Health initiatives.
our scientists are using their expertise to combat diseases
that pose the greatest risk to animals and humans.
Protecting Endangered Species from Disease California Condor Recovery Program
Through our Center for Transboundary and Emerging
Diseases (CTED), Zoetis monitors approximately 200 Around the world, Zoetis vaccines help protect the lives of In April 2023, dozens of California condors were identified
diseases identified by WHO as zoonotic—those shared animals every day. Animals can be impacted by outbreaks as having died due to infection with HPAI H5N1.
between animals and humans—as well as transboundary of unknown diseases, increases of a known disease in a To address the HPAI threat to this critically endangered
animal diseases (TADs), and EIDs that threaten livestock new or existing area, and infectious diseases that cannot species, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS)
and pets. These include emerging new infectious diseases, be controlled. The interconnectivity of EIDs and their coordinated with avian influenza experts, veterinarians,
such as COVID-19, and ever-present disease threats such impact on livestock, pets, humans, communities, and tribal, state and federal partners across the condor’s
as Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza (HPAI), which can economies, and the planet means that we must be vigilant range. The USFWS’ California Condor Recovery Program
impact the food supply and harm the incomes of farmers and constantly monitor diseases, have research programs partners mobilized resources and took preemptive steps
who depend on animals for their livelihoods. in place and respond quickly to a threat. We’re combating to protect wild birds from HPAI. In May 2023, the U.S.
emerging infectious diseases that pose the greatest Department of Agriculture Animal and Planet Health
Our Approach
threat—because healthier animals help make a healthier Inspection Service approved the emergency use of HPAI
future for all. vaccine to prevent additional deaths of these birds. Zoetis
Through CTED, Zoetis conducts veterinary biosurveillance
donated 100,000 doses HPAI vaccine to the USDA in
and has developed or supported vaccines for high-impact
support of the California Condors Vaccination Program.
TADs and EIDs around the world, including Avian
Following vaccine trials in captive birds, the USFWS has
Influenza, Porcine Epidemic Diarrhea Virus, Schmallenberg
moved on to vaccination programs for wild California
Virus, Hendra Virus, Bluetongue Virus, Lumpy Skin
condors.
Disease, Canine Influenza, Rabies, Lyme disease, West Nile
Virus, Avian Pneumovirus and SARS-CoV-2. Our scientists
also organize our response to outbreaks of infectious
diseases worldwide, mobilizing resources from across the
company and working in close collaboration with leaders
from government and health organizations, as well as
veterinary and livestock agricultural communities to
identify infectious disease threats early and develop
solutions to help rapidly control them.
14 EPI-WIN Digest 2: Operationalizing the One Health Approach in Countries
to Improve Preparedness for Zoonotic Diseases, World Health Organization.
26
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index
Veterinary SARS-CoV-2 Vaccine Donation Program WOAH Rabies Vaccine Program
While COVID-19 infected humans in nearly every region Nearly a decade ago, the WHO set an ambitious Zero by
of the planet, concerns began to surface about COVID-19 30 goal—no human will die from a bite or scratch from
in pets when a dog tested positive for the virus in Hong a dog with rabies by 2030.16 Although 100% preventable,
Kong.15 Zoetis immediately began developing diagnostics rabies kills more than 59,000 people in over 150 countries
and a new vaccine for potential use in dogs and cats. every year. The disease is nearly always fatal once
Because Zoetis has a long history of research on symptoms appear. To advance the goal, Zoetis
coronaviruses, we were able to complete the initial studies collaborates with many organizations, governments and
for a COVID-19 vaccine in dogs and cats within eight communities as part of a One Health approach.
months of the outbreak. This includes:
The first request for the vaccine came from San Diego • Providing rabies vaccines to the Rabies Vaccine
Zoo after eight gorillas tested positive for COVID-19. Bank from the World Organization for Animal
We donated experimental vaccines for the zoo’s Health (WOAH)—a supply agreement that continues
emergency use, and the zoo vaccinated its great apes— through 2025.
gorillas, orangutans and bonobos. At the conclusion of the
• Facilitating educational and awareness activities
program in 2023, the vaccine had been used in over
to support communities, including activities related
300 species of animals in zoos around the world—a first
to World Rabies Day in countries around the world.
in vaccine history.
Challenges and Opportunities
Transboundary and Emerging Disease Vaccine
Development
It is anticipated that there will be continuing TADs and
In 2019, Zoetis announced a strategic partnership with EIDs that threaten livestock and companion animals. Given
Texas A&M University to establish and operationalize the that approximately 75% of human diseases are of zoonotic
Transboundary and Emerging Diseases Vaccine origin, this also represents a significant One Health issue.
Development Facility (TED VDF). Following this success, Zoetis will continue to develop medical countermeasures
in 2023, Zoetis initiated transition of the TED VDF from to protect livestock and companion animals from
a strategic partnership with Texas A&M University to TADs, EIDs, and emerging pests. In doing so, we will
a Zoetis Research and Development satellite site. During also strive to protect endangered species and support
the year, scientists at the TED VDF in College Station, healthy ecosystems.
Texas worked on creating a toolbox for making vaccines
to help protect animals from transboundary diseases.
In addition, Zoetis continues to engage with academic
and research institutions around the world to study and
develop vaccines against transboundary and emerging
infectious diseases.
15 First great apes at U.S. zoo receive COVID-19 vaccine for animals.
National Geographic.
16 Zero by 30: the global strategic plan to end human deaths from dog-
mediated rabies by 2030. World Health Organization.
27
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index
PLANET
The Drive
to Protect
our Planet
We steward resources responsibly
and minimize our impact on the planet,
as we deliver products and services
that advance the health of animals.
28
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index
Our Carbon Footprint
Aspiration
Minimize our carbon footprint
Target 2023 Progress
What Drives Us Become carbon neutral in our own operations by 2030 • 18.9% reduction in Scope 1 and 2 emissions.1
Our Approach
• Completed 38 energy-related carbon abatement
Climate change is a significant global issue with wide- In 2022, we set a goal to be carbon neutral in our own projects at our sites in 2023.
ranging impacts. We operate in many regions, countries
operations and accelerated our RE100 commitment to
and communities around the world where our businesses, Source 100% renewable electricity by 2030 • 32.6% renewable electricity sourced to align with our
source 100% renewable electricity in our operations, both
our activities, and the activities of our customers and RE100 commitment.2
by 2030. To achieve carbon neutrality, we are focused
suppliers could be disrupted by climate change. At Zoetis, on reducing emissions by: • 13.7% renewable energy sourced.3
we have committed to reducing GHG emissions in our own
• On-site solar arrays now installed at 7 Zoetis facilities.
• Driving energy efficiency at our sites
operations and managing our climate risks because
it matters to the communities we serve, our colleagues, • Transitioning our fleet to more fuel-efficient, Rethink business travel and work-from-home policies to • Reduced colleague transportation-related emissions
our customers, the health of animals and those who care hybrid and electric vehicles, and utilizing biofuels reduce transportation-related emissions by 25% by 20254 intensity by 35.6%.
for them around the world. where available
• Powering our operations with clean, renewable
1 Based on 2021 baseline and reported through December 31, 2023. For additional details on our GHG emissions, such as inclusions and exclusions, see our
electricity
Environment Data.
2 Renewable electricity is aligned to our RE100 commitment and is the proportion of renewable electricity relative to total Scope 2 electricity use and
based on a 2020 baseline and reported through December 31, 2023.
Cumulative approach to 3 Renewable energy includes the proportion of renewable electricity, other renewable heating/cooling and biofuels use relative to total Scope 1 and 2
energy use and reported through December 31, 2023.
1
achieve carbon neutrality by 2030
4 Based on 2019 baseline. Reduction reported is total of business travel and colleague commuting normalized by number of colleagues for respective
reporting year.
In 2023, even as our business continues to grow, we’ve To ensure we remain on track to achieve our goal,
made progress toward our goal. Our annual total Scope 1 we regularly conduct analyses on our climate action
and 2 emissions decreased by 23.1% from 2022 to 2023. strategy to inform our decisions and investments. In 2024,
The reductions achieved in 2023 were primarily driven we will embed low-carbon investment considerations into
e 2 by a combination of energy efficiency efforts, acceleration our capital project planning. We’ve also begun analyzing
O
C of our renewable electricity program and an extended our full Scope 3 footprint and, in 2024, will establish
s
n preventative maintenance program at two of our large a roadmap for calculating these emissions. For more
o
c
t manufacturing sites. information on our climate progress, see our 2023 CDP
i
r Climate Change Questionnaire.
t
e
m
1 The information displayed in this chart is projected and subject to change.
2 BAU = Business as usual
29
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index
Driving Energy Efficiency to Reduce Emissions In 2023, our fleet emissions increased primarily due to
an increase in miles driven. We will continue to prioritize
Energy used at our facilities is the primary source of our 100% of our purchased
purchasing of electric and hybrid vehicles based on
Scope 1 and 2 emissions. To achieve our climate goal, we electricity at our Lincoln,
availability while also identifying methods to reduce
must design, build and operate with energy efficiency Nebraska site was bundled
fleet emissions through additional measures
in mind. In 2023, we focused on establishing a strategic with renewable electricity
such as renewable fuels.
approach to energy management at the enterprise level certificates in 2023.
by establishing a formal governance process to help
Source Renewable Electricity
us allocate capital and prioritize key energy
As part of our carbon-neutrality goal, we have committed
reduction projects.
to sourcing 100% renewable electricity across our global
In addition to our overall program enhancements,
operations by 2030 and joined the RE100 initiative. We Our Suzhou Bio
we successfully completed 38 projects across our
plan to achieve these commitments by entering into manufacturing site in
manufacturing and R&D sites during 2023. These
power purchase agreements to procure renewable China installed a PV solar
investments are expected to result in a reduction of
electricity in regions and markets where it is available and array that generates up to
approximately 88,000 gigajoules (GJ) of energy use
through the installation of on-site renewable electricity at 10% of the site’s electricity
annually. We also developed a five-year capital plan for
suitable sites. We continue to monitor the renewable demands.
our ten highest emitting sites, which includes optimizing
electricity industry to understand new opportunities
energy management by enhancing and modernizing
to help us meet our renewable electricity targets.
utilities and our manufacturing equipment, as well as
In 2023, ten of our manufacturing sites operated with
investing in energy-efficient designs for new sites.
100% renewable electricity, including four commercial
At our Rathdrum, Ireland manufacturing site, we piloted
operations in Norway and our offices in Zaventem,
an energy management program that allows us to
Belgium and Dublin, Ireland—our largest office outside 32.6%
proactively monitor, measure and manage energy of electricity used
the United States.
reduction. By implementing measures to optimize energy
is from renewable sources
In early 2024, we also entered into a 12-year virtual power
usage, such as repairing insulation and refining energy
purchase agreement (VPPA) with Scout Clean Energy for
usage schedules, we realized a reduction in energy usage
power from their Heart of Texas wind farm. A VPPA is a
and associated GHG emissions. Building on the success
long-term contract through which renewable electricity
of this program, we plan to expand it to four more sites
projects are supported. This 50 MW VPPA is equivalent to
in 2024. 34.5%
of our manufacturing
up to 65% of our annual U.S. electricity needs and will
Minimize Fleet Emissions begin in the first half of 2024. We anticipate that this
sites operate with 100%
agreement, along with the Vesper VPPA that is due to
We continue to advance our efforts in reducing fleet
renewable electricity
come online in 2025, will result in securing almost all of
emissions by transitioning our fleet of just over 3,800
our U.S. electricity needs from renewable sources.
vehicles across 49 countries to higher-efficiency vehicles
and accelerating the deployment of hybrid and electric
vehicles (EVs) in locations where the supporting
infrastructure is available. In 2023, electric vehicles
represented 3.1% of our total fleet vehicles (a 147%
increase from 2022) and hybrid vehicles accounted for
12.6% of our total fleet (a 28.0% increase from 2022).
Despite the continued headwinds of supply constraints
with electric and hybrid vehicles during 2023, we
deployed 72 new EVs and 108 new hybrid vehicles
globally.
30
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index
Reducing Travel-Related Emissions To achieve this, we plan to leverage both intentional
in-person collaboration and virtual teaming opportunities. More ways we drive to protect our planet
As part of our Driven to Care strategy, we set an
We also support colleagues who drive EVs and have
aspiration to rethink our business travel and work-from-
installed charging stations at 21 locations globally.
home policies to reduce our transportation-related
As an animal health company, being good stewards of
In 2023, we also reduced our total waste footprint
emissions by 25% by 2025, using 2019 as our baseline.
Challenges and Opportunities the environment is important to us, the communities
by 7.0% compared to 2022. We focused heavily on
To achieve this, we analyzed our travel patterns,
where we operate and our customers. We recognize
reducing the quantities of hazardous waste sent to
promoted sustainable travel awareness across our
As we progress closer toward our climate ambitions, that some of our manufacturing processes can be
landfill and successfully achieved a 12.1% reduction,
business and evaluated our travel partners to ensure
we foresee potential challenges that we would need to water and resource intensive. Therefore, we are
driven primarily by our R&D site in Kalamazoo, Michigan.
more sustainable options are available to our colleagues.
overcome. These include limited availability of renewable focused on making our operations more efficient,
We remain committed to reducing non-essential travel, Across our manufacturing sites, we also successfully
electricity and low-carbon fuel options in certain identifying opportunities to recycle and repurpose
focusing on business-critical travel, and adjusting our increased the quantity of waste recycled by 9.6%
geographic regions and, as we continue to develop our our wastewater, and reducing the amount of and
programs and policies accordingly. compared to 2022. This was primarily driven by the
Scope 3 footprint, obtaining accurate value chain data responsibly managing waste. For more information
colleagues at our Olot and Rathdrum sites, who
Since 2019, our colleague transportation-related emissions for our Scope 3 emissions. Despite these challenges, on our water initiatives, see our 2023 CDP Water
identified opportunities to recycle an additional
intensity has decreased by 35.6%17 percent and our we continue to find ways to advance toward our Security Questionnaire.
180 metric tons of hazardous waste.
absolute emissions have decreased by 14.4%. commitments by implementing better processes, working
During 2023, we reduced our global water intake
Our business travel emissions have decreased by 27.6% collaboratively across the company and leveraging by 3.0% or 101,988 cubic meters (m3). This reduction Pharmaceuticals in the Environment (PiE)
and while our colleague commuting emissions have external partners to identify near-term solutions, while
was driven primarily by maintenance shutdowns at
increased by 16.0%, we’ve increased our number of keeping an eye on what’s next. Zoetis is committed to minimizing the environmental
our Medicated Feed Additives (MFA) fermentation
impact of our products, and this includes actively
colleagues by 33.0% during that same period.
In 2024, we plan to continue to implement energy operations.
working to mitigate the presence of PiE. The primary
We continue to refine flexible working models within the efficiency and renewable energy projects, including
As part of an effort to identify impactful projects in source of a veterinary pharmaceutical entering the
organization to ensure that we meet our business needs onboarding our second virtual power purchase
areas of high water stress, we commenced a project environment from our products occurs after elimination
as well as support our colleagues’ well-being, with many agreement. We also plan to continue to embed climate
at our Catania site in Italy that will enable us to from the treated animal. On a more local scale, however,
teams combining virtual and in-office work. Where and sustainability elements into various parts of our
recycle additional water annually. These conservation pharmaceuticals can enter the environment at the end
possible, we will balance opportunities to reduce manufacturing and supply chain objectives and
measures are important as we continue to grow our of the manufacturing process.
employee commuting emissions, while ensuring we procedures. Additionally, we plan to automate many of
business. We are continuing to explore opportunities
nurture our culture and continue to build community. our climate, water, and waste data collections while Our PiE program consists of a robust process that
across our manufacturing network to increase
advancing our Scope 3 emissions measurement includes establishing science-based safe emission limits
water efficiency.
capabilities and supplier engagement strategy roadmap. for our active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) and
environmental risk assessments at our manufacturing
79.9% increase in quantity sites and suppliers. Optimization and implementation
1
Scope 3: Colleague transportation-related GHG emissions of the most effective pollution prevention and control
of hazardous waste recycled
measures are supported by training programs for site
compared to 2022
management and personnel.
30,000
e
2
O
31.0% reduction in routine
C
s
20,000
n 14,100 operational non-hazardous
o
t
c
10,600
waste compared to 2022
i
r
t 10,000
e
m
0
2019 2023
Business Travel Emissions Colleague Commuting Emissions Number of Colleagues
17 Percent decrease is based on total colleagues transportation-related
1 Additional details on our Scope 3 Category 6: Business Travel and Category 7: Employee Commuting emissions are detailed in our Environment Data. emissions normalized by total number of colleagues.
31
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index
Rethinking our Packaging
Aspiration
Rethink our packaging to reduce its environmental footprint
Target 2023 Progress
What Drives Us Sustainable Packaging Integrate sustainability considerations into all new • Developed a sustainable packaging strategy, focusing
packaging designs our investments in the areas most important to our
Our sustainable packaging strategy guides and focuses
We have a responsibility to improve our products’ footprint and our customers.
our investments across our business. By engaging our
environmental impact throughout their life cycle—from
• Undertook a pilot Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) to
customers, colleagues and leadership, alongside insights
research and development to post-consumer waste.
identify key areas of environmental impacts in our
from environmental assessments, we identified three
We’ve committed to include sustainability considerations
product manufacturing processes.
priority areas:
in all new packaging designs to ensure that our innovative,
• Launched improved product and supply chain
industry-leading solutions are delivered sustainably for 1. New product packaging: Our packaging
packaging.
our customers, our communities and technology team will evaluate new sustainable
the planet. packaging technologies for our packaging, with
a focus on secondary packaging. We will identify
2023 Packaging Achievements
Our Approach
options for different product types, considering the
impact on product quality and safety, sustainability • At our Lincoln, Nebraska site, we replaced plastic clam
We’re working to innovate packaging systems that not attributes, and others including customer shells with paperboard boxes for our rabies vaccine
only maintain the safety and quality of our products and experience considerations. packages distributed in the U.S. market, cutting PVC
provide convenience for our customers, but also result plastic use by estimated 8.0 metric tons and overall
2. On-market products: For our on-market products—
in less waste and reduced emissions at every stage of the packaging by an estimated 2.5 metric tons annually.
those that have completed registration and can be
product pathway. With the support of our leadership team This follows our earlier success of using paperboard for
provided to the market—we will transition to
and the dedication of our Packaging Council, packaging the same vaccine distributed in the South Korean and
sustainable packaging used for similar new
technology teams, and manufacturing, regulatory, Japanese markets.
products when feasible. In addition, improvements
research, supply chain, and commercial colleagues,
in secondary packaging, including leaflets and • In the United States, starting in 2023, we removed
we’re rethinking our packaging and reducing our
accessories, will be reviewed against regulatory sterile wipes for our Orbeseal® packaging, which will
environmental footprint.
requirements and implemented, if possible. eliminate approximately 7,000,000 individually-
wrapped sterile wipes per year.
3. Supply chain packaging: Our supply chain team
is focusing on reducing waste associated with our • In Portugal, we invested in a system that allows
products’ protective shipping packaging for us to shred waste cardboard on-site, which is reused
our customers. as protective packaging in place of plastic protective
pillows.
In 2023, we also onboarded a packaging specification
database to allow us to track packaging materials and
identify areas where we can reduce our environmental
impact. In addition, the database and our work in
sustainable packaging will allow us to align with global
regulations to improve packaging sustainability.
32
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index
Location Sustainability Teams
Sustainable Design
Each material we select or process we use has an impact but also exploring more sustainable practices for our
on the environment. Understanding these impacts biotherapeutics.
Aspiration
throughout our product life cycle is critical to achieving
Collaborations and Partnerships
a more sustainable future. That is why we’re innovating
Improve the sustainability in our locations
and integrating sustainability considerations in each Zoetis is a member of several industry groups driving
Target 2023 Progress
of the five life cycle stages through our Sustainable improvement in sustainability. We joined the American
Product Pathway initiative. Chemical Society, Green Chemistry Institute
Stand-up “Location Sustainability” teams in major sites • All major sites have sustainability teams.
Pharmaceutical Roundtable, and are actively
To support our work on the Sustainable Product Pathway,
contributing to the working groups to understand and
we conducted pilot LCAs on our manufacturing processes
develop industry best practices. We are also members
and considered our sustainability strategy, climate goals
of the Sustainable Packaging Coalition, which What Drives Us Challenges and Opportunities
and customer impact. For each of the five stages, we’ve
facilitates collaboration among stakeholders to
identified focus areas for improvement and investment,
As a global company, we rely on our local teams to help Over the past few years, with support from the Zoetis
advance sustainable packaging, and the
such as green chemistry, product design, packaging and
advance our sustainability strategy by identifying Global Sustainability team, we’ve proactively engaged
Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative, which aims to
post-consumer recycling, and created working groups to
opportunities that are site- and market-specific. our colleagues by leveraging several sustainability-related
drive excellence in safety, environmental and social
drive progress in those areas. For green chemistry
communication platforms to share learnings and best
outcomes across global pharmaceutical supply chains.
considerations, our focus includes not only small molecule Our Approach
practices, and collaborate on projects for sustainability
chemistry incorporating green and flow processes,
actions. We will continue to evaluate ways to embed
Since 2022, we’ve had in place sustainability teams at all
sustainability into our local operations and identify new
major Zoetis sites that lead localized sustainability actions.
opportunities for cross-functional work streams.
These include determining climate opportunities, such
1 2 3 4 5 as on-site renewables. We also established a Market Green
team to share best practice and learnings among our
Research and Manufacturing Supply Chain Customer Post-Consumer commercial teams.
Development Experience
In addition, our Energy Core team, a technical working
group comprised of representatives across our
manufacturing and R&D business units, has been in place
since 2020. The team focuses on ways to operationalize
our climate targets by building tools and updating
Challenges and Opportunities In 2024, we plan to use the learnings from our LCAs
processes to embed sustainability into our capital
and green chemistry benchmarking to invest in process
program and cost improvement processes. The Energy
As a pharmaceutical company, there are a number of improvements that result in environmental and cost
Core team provides routine updates to the Global
design factors that we must consider, including benefits. We plan to focus on data-driven solutions,
Manufacturing & Supply Leadership team on progress. Our
utilizing a Plan-Act-Track-Review process of continuous
regulations, product quality and safety. Modifications to
Sustainability Governance graphic presents how
improvement. We will continue to test and approve
packaging may require that we undergo a multi-year
packaging as technology evolves and look for sustainable accountability for sustainability and ESG topics is
registration change in each market. In some cases, the
solutions to these challenges. managed across Zoetis’ internal teams and committees as
technology to develop sustainable packaging that satisfies
well as the Board of Directors and its committees.
quality and safety requirements is not yet available. We
consider potential product waste generated from inferior
product protection and shorter shelf-life when assessing
the benefits of sustainable packaging.
33
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index
SASB and
ESG Index
This index provides information on
relevant environmental, social and
governance (ESG) metrics, and our
disclosure of the Sustainability
Accounting Standards Board (SASB)
standards for the Health Care:
Biotechnology & Pharmaceuticals
18
industry. As an animal health company,
some of the SASB standards are not
applicable to our operations. Where
appropriate, we seek to provide
comparable disclosures relevant
to our business. We supplemented
the table with additional narrative
about our programs.
18 SASB Biotechnology & Pharmaceuticals Sustainability Accounting Standard Version 2023-12.
34
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index
Safety of Clinical Trial Participants
SASB Code Metric Disclosure
HC-BP-210a.1 Discussion, by region, of management process for ensuring quality and patient safety during clinical trials See our discussion on Safety of Clinical Trial Participants.
Number of inspections related to clinical trial management and pharmacovigilance that resulted in: (1)
HC-BP-210a.2 See our discussion on Safety of Clinical Trial Participants.
entity voluntary remediation or (2) regulatory or administrative actions taken against the entity
We have not, to date, incurred any monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with clinical trials.
Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with clinical trials in
HC-BP-210a.3 Any future material losses would be publicly disclosed in our U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filings
developing countries
as required.
See our Animal Care and Welfare page on Zoetis.com and our Policy on Animal Care and Welfare for information on
— Ensuring animal well-being in clinical trials
how we ensure animal well-being during clinical trials.
Access to Medicines
SASB Code Metric Disclosure
The Access to Medicines Index is for human health and not relevant to Zoetis as an animal health company.
Description of actions and initiatives to promote access to health care products for priority diseases and
HC-BP-240a.1 See the Access to Veterinary Care in Emerging Markets section to learn about our efforts to promote access to
in priority countries as defined by the Access to Medicine Index
our products.
List of products on the WHO List of Prequalified Medicinal Products as part of its Prequalification of
HC-BP-240a.2 None of our products are on the WHO List of Prequalified Medicinal Products.
Medicines Programme (PQP)
Affordability and Pricing
SASB Code Metric Disclosure
We price our products globally, according to the competitive market and how our customers value the benefits
Percentage change in: (1) weighted average list price and (2) weighted average net price across product
HC-BP-240b.2 they receive. From 2022 to 2023, our price growth was approximately 5%. Price growth was approximately 3%
portfolio compared to previous reporting period
from 2021 to 2022, and approximately 1% from 2020 to 2021.
Percentage change in: (1) list price and (2) net price of product with largest increase compared to While we are not reporting percentage change in list price, we are disclosing that no single product materially
HC-BP-240b.3
previous reporting period contributed to our price growth in 2023.
35
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index
Product Safety
SASB Code Metric Disclosure
HC-BP-250a.1 Products listed in public medical product safety or adverse event alert databases See our discussion on Product Safety.
HC-BP-250a.2 Number of fatalities associated with products See our discussion on Product Safety.
HC-BP-250a.3 (1) Number of recalls issued, (2) total units recalled See our discussion on Product Safety.
HC-BP-250a.4 Total amount of product accepted for take-back, reuse or disposal See our discussion on Product Safety.
Number of enforcement actions taken in response to violations of good manufacturing practices (GMP)
HC-BP-250a.5 See our discussion on Product Safety.
or equivalent standards, by type
— Product safety and quality program See our discussion on Product Safety.
Counterfeit Drugs
SASB Code Metric Disclosure
Description of methods and technologies used to maintain traceability of products throughout the supply
HC-BP-260a.1 See our discussion on Counterfeit Drugs.
chain and prevent counterfeiting
Discussion of process for alerting customers and business partners of potential or known risks associated
HC-BP-260a.2 See our discussion on Counterfeit Drugs.
with counterfeit products
Number of actions that led to raids, seizure, arrests and/or filing of criminal charges related to counterfeit
HC-BP-260a.3 See our discussion on Counterfeit Drugs.
products
Ethical Marketing
SASB Code Metric Disclosure
We have not, to date, incurred any monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with false marketing
HC-BP-270a.1 Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with false marketing claims
claims. Any future material losses would be publicly disclosed in our SEC filings as required.
HC-BP-270a.2 Description of code of ethics governing promotion of off-label use of products See our discussion on Ethical Marketing.
— Commitment to Ethical marketing See our discussion on Ethical Marketing.
36
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index
Employee Recruitment, Development and Retention
SASB Code Metric Disclosure
HC-BP-330a.1 Discussion of talent recruitment and retention efforts for scientists and research and development staff See the Caring for our Colleagues section.
(1) Voluntary and (2) involuntary turnover rate for: (a) executives/senior managers, (b) mid-level
HC-BP-330a.2 See our Social Data.
managers, (c) professionals and (d) all others
Supply Chain Management
SASB Code Metric Disclosure
Percentage of (1) entity's facilities and (2) Tier I suppliers' facilities participating in the RX-360
HC-BP-430a.1 International Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Consortium audit programme or equivalent third-party audit See our discussion on Supply Chain Management.
programmes for integrity of supply chain and ingredients
— Global supply chain management program See our discussion on Supply Chain Management.
— Responsible supply chain management See our discussion on Supply Chain Management.
Supplier Diversity
SASB Code Metric Disclosure
From 2022 to 2023, we had a 56% increase in our U.S. Tier 11 and 22 diverse supplier spend, and a 15% increase in our
count of Tier 1 and 2 diverse suppliers, which is a steady increase compared to the growth from 2021 to 2022, which
was 32% and 12%, respectively. We define diverse suppliers as women-owned, minority-owned, small business,
LGBTQ-owned, veteran-owned or other disadvantaged enterprises. The increase in diverse supplier spend and
count is based on both Tier 1 and 2 diverse spend.
— Supplier diversity
See our discussion on Supplier Diversity and our Supplier Diversity page for additional information.
1 Tier 1 diverse spend is defined as a direct expenditure with a certified diverse supplier.
2 Tier 2 diverse spend is defined as spend attributable to Zoetis, either directly or indirectly, through a primary supplier to a diverse supplier (certified
or self-certified), but the diverse supplier has no direct contract with Zoetis.
Business Continuity
SASB Code Metric Disclosure
— Business continuity See our discussion on Business Continuity.
Environmental Management Program
SASB Code Metric Disclosure
— Environmental management program See our discussion on our Environmental Management Program.
37
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index
Business Ethics
SASB Code Metric Disclosure
We have not, to date, incurred any monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with corruption and
HC-BP-510a.1 Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with corruption and bribery
bribery. Any future material losses would be publicly disclosed in our SEC filings as required.
HC-BP-510a.2 Description of code of ethics governing interactions with health care professionals See our discussion on Business Ethics.
— Ethics and compliance program See our discussion on Business Ethics.
Our Policy on Political Contributions and any contributions from the Zoetis’ Political Action Committee (PAC), are
overseen by senior management and approved by a representative board of Zoetis colleagues, with periodic
— Political involvement updates to the Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee of the Board of Directors. Information on our
Policy on Political Contributions and political spending disclosures can be found under the Policies and Procedures
section of our Corporate Governance web page.
Data Security and Privacy
SASB Code Metric Disclosure
— Data privacy See our discussion on Data Privacy and Information Security.
— Information security See our discussion on Data Privacy and Information Security.
Activity Metrics
SASB Code Metric 2023 2022 2021
HC-BP-000.A Number of patients treated Not applicable for animal health.
1) As disclosed in our Form 10-K, we have approximately 300 comprehensive product lines.
HC-BP-000.B Number of drugs (1) in portfolio and (2) in research and development (Phases 1-3)
2) Phases 1-3 are not applicable for animal health. For competitive reasons, we are not reporting number of products in R&D.
— Revenue (million dollars) $8,544 $8,080 $7,776
— Number of full-time equivalent colleagues1 14,100 13,800 12,100
— U.S. 6,900 6,900 5,900
— Other jurisdictions 7,200 6,900 6,200
— Number of research & development colleagues1 1,600 1,430 1,300
— Number of sales organization colleagues1 4,100 4,200 3,800
— Number of global manufacturing sites operated by us 29 29 28
— R&D investments (expense) (million dollars) $614 $539 $508
1 Full-time equivalent counts are approximate and as of December 31 of each reporting year.
38
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index
Social Data
1
Race/Ethnicity – U.S. Workforce 2023 2022 2021 Turnover Rates – U.S. Workforce 2023 2022 2021
White 74.8% 75.4% 76.2% Executives/senior managers - voluntary 0.2% 0.1% 0.3%
Black 4.6% 4.8% 4.6% Executives/senior managers - involuntary 0.2% 0.1% 0.1%
Asian 11.1% 10.7% 10.5% Mid-level managers - voluntary 0.1% 0.4% 0.5%
Hispanic/Latinx 6.9% 6.4% 5.9% Mid-level managers - involuntary 0.2% 0.1% 0.2%
Other 2.6% 2.7% 2.8% Professionals - voluntary 2.1% 2.8% 3.7%
Professionals - involuntary 2.3% 0.5% 0.5%
Gender – Global Workforce 2023 2022 2021
All other - voluntary 6.7% 7.3% 8.6%
Male 52% 53% 54%
All other - involuntary 2.6% 0.9% 1.1%
Female 48% 47% 46%
1 Data provided reflects inclusion of all colleagues who meet U.S. headcount includable (i.e., permanent colleagues not on long term leave, and excluding
contractors or interns) requirements as of the date data was compiled for this report on March 14, 2024, for calendar year 2023. As headcount includable
Gender – Global Management1 2023 2022 2021 status may vary over time due to changes in employee status, management has accepted that slight variances (not to exceed 1-2%) may occur for the same
time period if data is compiled on an alternate date. Global voluntary attrition rate can be found in the Zoetis 2023 Annual Report, page 20 of the PDF.
Male 62% 63% 65%
Female 38% 37% 35% Parental Leave - U.S. Workforce 2023 2022 2021
Number of colleagues using paid parental leave 209 155 —
2
Gender – Global Executive Team 2023 2022 2021
Male 36% 50% 55%
1
Health and Safety Performance 2023 2022 2021
Female 64% 50% 45%
Total Injury Rate (TIR)2 0.50 0.37 0.50
2 Lost Time Injury Rate (LTIR)2 0.30 0.20 0.26
Race/Ethnicity – Global Executive Team 2023 2022 2021
Fatality Rate 0 0 0
White 55% 67% 55%
Number of U.S. OSHA Voluntary Protection
Person of Color 45% 33% 45%
5 4 4
Program (VPP) Star Sites3
For a more detailed report of our U.S. colleague demographics, see our 2023 EEO-1 report. Number of International Zoetis H&S Star Sites4 5 3 2
Demographical information regarding our Board of Directors can be found on page 12 of our 2024 Proxy Statement.
1 Management levels defined as Director level and above.
1 These metrics cover global operations.
2 Values for 2022 included in the 2022 sustainability report were from April 2023; values for all years in this table are as of year-end.
2 U.S. average for the Pharmaceutical and Medicine Manufacturing Industry (NAICS 32541) TIR and LTIR was not available for 2023 at the time of publication.
The TIR and LTIR were 1.7 and 0.5 in 2022, and 1.6 and 1.7 in 2021, respectively. Source: U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics.
3 In 2023, sites included 3 manufacturing sites and 2 logistics centers. In 2022 and 2021, sites included 3 manufacturing sites and 1 logistics center.
4 In 2023, sites included 5 manufacturing sites. In 2022 and 2021, sites included 3 and 2 manufacturing sites, respectively.
39
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index
Environment Data
Greenhouse Gas Emissions (metric 1,2
2023 2022 2021 2019 Energy (gigajoule) 2023 2022 2021
1,2
tons CO e)
2
Scope 1 emissions - total3,4 111,637 112,557 101,498 Energy 3,235,153 3,546,540 3,381,761
Energy intensity (per $1M revenue) 379 439 432
Manufacturing, R&D and offices 88,075 91,621 81,477
Renewable energy 444,377 226,858 204,879
Fleet 23,562 20,956 20,021
Renewable energy (%)3 13.7% 6.4% 6.1%
Scope 2 emissions - market-based 121,167 190,609 186,710
Scope 2 emissions - location-based 177,750 226,423 227,904 RE100: Renewable Electricity (%)4 32.6% 14.7% 13.4%
Scope 1 and 2 emissions - total5 232,804 303,186 288,208 1 Energy and energy intensity data covers global operations and was updated in 2021 to account for a manufacturing site in Rutherford, Australia acquired
in 2022.
Scope 1 and 2 emissions intensity (per $1M
27.2 37.5 36.8 2 Energy data from the offices is estimated based on the square area of the office when energy invoices are not available. Energy data from Zoetis office
revenue)
locations was expanded to include more than 95% of the office locations for 2022 onward, but data for these additional locations is not available for 2021.
Scope 3: Category 6 - Business Travel6 21,399 19,048 6,325 29,555 Energy data from 19 Zoetis reference laboratories was added to the energy footprint in 2022 onward, but was not retroactively added to 2021 because it is
not available. The energy footprint was expanded in 2022 to include energy consumed in our waste solvent incinerator at our Rathdrum facility and
Scope 3: Category 7 - Employee Commuting7 14,935 13,684 13,267 12,872 retroactively added for 2021.
3 Renewable energy includes the proportion of renewable electricity, other renewable heating/cooling and biofuels use relative to total Scope 1 and 2
Scope 3 colleague transportation related
36,334 32,732 19,592 42,427 energy use.
emissions
4 Renewable electricity is aligned to our RE100 commitment and is the proportion of renewable electricity relative to total Scope 2 electricity use.
Scope 3 colleague transportation-related
2.58 2.37 1.62 4.00
emissions intensity (per # of colleagues)
1,2
Water (cubic meters) 2023 2022 2021
1 GHG emissions were calculated using the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard as a basis and cover global operations. Carbon
dioxide equivalent (CO e) values include CO , methane (CH ), and nitrous oxide (N O). Emissions of hydroflurocarbons (HFCs), perflourocarbons (PFCs),
2 2 4 2
sulfur hexaflouride (SF ), and nitrogen triflouride (NF ) are currently being evaluated. Water intake 3,335,376 3,528,312 3,273,613
6 3
2 GHG emissions and emissions intensity from 2021 was updated in 2022 to account for the acquisition of a new manufacturing site in Rutherford, Australia Water intake in areas of high / extremely high
in 2022. 25.7% 11.7% 12.2%
water stress3
3 Emissions from Zoetis agricultural activity, including herd emissions and breakdown of manure waste, and our waste solvent incinerator are included in our
Scope 1 emissions. Emissions from some site-managed company vehicles and forklifts are not included in our Scope 1 emissions totals. Water discharge 2,400,631 2,588,745 2,485,020
4 Energy data from the offices is estimated based on the square area of the office when energy invoices are not available. GHG emissions data from Zoetis Water recycled 24,126 35,803 58,047
office locations has been expanded to include more than 95% of the office locations for 2022 onward, but data for these additional locations is not available
for 2021. Zoetis offices account for less than 0.5% of the 2021 emissions footprint. Data from 19 Zoetis reference laboratories were added to the emissions Water intake intensity (per $1M revenue) 390 437 418
footprint in 2022. Emissions data for reference laboratories is not available for 2021.
Water discharge intensity (per $1M revenue) 281 320 317
5 Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 emissions are the basis of our carbon neutrality commitment, and we use these metrics to measure our performance.
6 Emissions associated with air travel, hotel stays, car rentals and rail travel booked within Zoetis’ travel system are calculated by a third-party who use 1 Water and water intensity data from 2021 was updated to account for a manufacturing site in Rutherford, Australia acquired in 2022.
activity data such as aircraft type, cabin class, and distance. Emissions associated with personal car and ride share are calculated using data from the
company’s reimbursement system. Excluded sources include travel booked outside of our travel system and booking changes. 2 Water usage data for our office locations and 19 reference laboratories is included in our 2022 and 2023 water footprint where data is available. Water data
was not retroactively added for 2021 because it is not available. Data is included for offices and reference laboratories where metered data is available.
7 Emissions in this category include both commuting and telecommuting. For commuting, a hybrid average-based and distance-based method was used in
For offices and reference laboratories where no metered data is available, water usage has been estimated based on the number of colleagues on-site plus
accordance with the GHG Protocol Scope 3 Technical Guidance, and based on headcount as of December 31st of the respective reporting year. Estimates
estimated water usage in laboratory equipment.
were used for the number of commuting days per week and assumed to be the same for 2021-2023. For telecommuting, the methodology outlined in the
Anthesis Remote Worker Emissions Methodology, Feb 2021 report was used. 3 In 2022 and 2021, manufacturing and R&D sites in areas of water stress included Buellton CA, San Diego CA, Durham NC, Eagle Grove IA, Louvain La Neuve
Belgium, Catania Italy, Suzhou Bio & MFA China, and Melbourne Australia. In 2023, manufacturing and R&D sites in areas of water stress include: Chicago
Heights IL, Buellton CA, San Diego CA, Durham NC, Salisbury MD, Fort Collins CO, Louvain La Neuve Belgium, Catania Italy, Suzhou Bio & MFA China, and
Melbourne Australia. Water stress was determined using World Resources Institute Aqueduct.
40
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index
Environment Data
1 1
Non-Hazardous Waste (kilograms) 2023 2022 2021 Hazardous Waste (kilograms) 2023 2022 2021
Non-hazardous waste - total2 14,768,491 16,034,356 18,044,798 Hazardous waste - total2 14,275,180 15,196,924 13,135,713
Landfilled 4,403,158 4,088,767 4,919,541 Landfilled 1,425,043 1,619,397 1,181,818
Incinerated 999,418 784,348 474,821 Incinerated 2,671,390 1,898,191 2,499,143
Energy Recovery2 1,467,761 1,402,966 Energy Recovery2 9,712,791 11,420,358
6,014,636 9,454,752
Recycled 3,953,775 3,775,233 Recycled 465,956 258,978
Land application (Recycled) manure3 3,944,379 5,983,041 6,635,800 Hazardous waste intensity (per $1M revenue) 1,671 1,881 1,678
Non-hazardous waste intensity (per $1M Hazardous waste recycled / energy recovery
1,729 1,984 2,305 1,191 1,445 1,208
revenue) intensity (per $1M revenue)
Non-hazardous waste recycled / energy
1,096 1,381 1,616 1 Waste data from a manufacturing site in Rutherford, Australia acquired in 2022 was not added to the waste footprint as data is not available. Waste data
recovery intensity (per $1M revenue)
from this site has been included for 2023.
1 Waste data from a manufacturing site in Rutherford, Australia acquired in 2022 was not added to the waste footprint as data is not available. Waste data 2 In 2021, Zoetis reported waste disposed through incineration with energy recovery and recycled waste under a single category “recycled/energy recovery”.
from this site has been included for 2023. In 2022, we split out the waste disposed through incineration with energy recovery and reported it as a unique category.
2 In 2021, Zoetis reported waste disposed through incineration with energy recovery and recycled waste under a single category “recycled/energy recovery.”
In 2022, we split out the waste disposed through incineration with energy recovery and reported it as a unique category.
3 In 2022, we began reporting the quantity of cow manure waste that we recycle as fertilizer on our farm facilities. We have retroactively included manure
waste data for 2021.
41
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index
Taskforce for Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Index
TCFD provides a framework for recommended climate-related disclosures that companies use to inform their stakeholders
about their climate-related financial risks. Disclosure is structured around four thematic areas that represent how companies
operate: governance, strategy, risk management, and metrics and targets. Our TCFD Index below maps these four areas to
relevant sections of published Zoetis documents and our 2023 CDP Climate Change Questionnaire.
To learn more about how we nurture the world and humankind by advancing care for animals, visit zoetis.com/sustainability.
Purpose Disclosure Zoetis 2023 Climate Response Other Disclosures
Governance
• Charter of the Corporate
Describe the board’s oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities. C1.1a, C1.1b, C1.1c, C1.1d
Disclose the organization’s
Governance and Sustainability
governance around climate-related
Committee
risks and opportunities. Describe management’s role in assessing and managing climate-related risks and opportunities. C1.2
• 2023 Sustainability Report, page 8
Strategy
Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities the organization has identified over the short, medium, and long
Disclose the actual and potential C2.1a, C2.2a, C2.3a, C2.4a
term.
impacts of climate-related risks and
opportunities on the organization’s Describe the impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organization’s businesses, strategy, and Zoetis 2023 Annual Report, pages
C3.2, C3.3, C3.4
businesses, strategy, and financial financial planning. 24-27 of the PDF
planning where such information is
Describe the resilience of the organization’s strategy, taking into consideration different climate-related scenarios,
material. C3.2
including a 2°C or lower scenario.
Risk Management
Describe the organization’s processes for identifying and assessing climate-related risks. C2.1, C2.1a, C2.1b, C2.2, C2.2a
Disclose how the organization
Describe the organization’s processes for managing climate-related risks. C2.1, C2.2 Zoetis 2023 Annual Report, pages
identifies, assesses and manages
24-27 of the PDF
climate-related risks.
Describe how processes for identifying, assessing and managing climate-related risks are integrated into the
C2.2
organization’s overall risk management.
Metrics and Targets
Disclose the metrics used by the organization to assess climate-related risks and opportunities in line with its strategy
Disclose the metrics and targets C5, C6, C7, C8
and risk management process.
used to assess and manage relevant
2023 Sustainability Report, pages 28,
climate-related risks and Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2, and, if appropriate, Scope 3 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, and the related risks. C6
39
opportunities where such
Describe the targets used by the organization to manage climate-related risks and opportunities and performance
information is material. C4.1, C4.1a, C4.1b, C4.2a
against targets.
42
Introduction Communities Animals Planet ESG Index
Disclosures
This 2023 Sustainability Report includes forward-looking This 2023 Sustainability Report contains non-financial
statements, which reflect the current views of Zoetis information and metrics that are subject to measurement
about, among other things, our progress toward our uncertainties resulting from limitations inherent in the
Driven to Care aspirations; our sustainability, energy and nature of, and the methods used for determining, such
climate goals, targets and plans; our business plans or data. The selection of different but acceptable
prospects; expectations regarding future operating or measurement techniques can result in materially different
financial performance; general industry conditions and measurements. The precision of different measurement
competition; general economic factors; technological techniques may also vary. Metrics are presented based on
advances and new products; the impact of pharmaceutical information available at the time. Recalculations for prior
and animal healthcare regulation and legislation in the periods are completed if new information or changes to
United States and internationally; and other future events. process are available in accordance with management’s
These statements are not guarantees of future change control practices. For purposes of this report, the
performance or actions. Forward-looking statements are concept of “materiality” does not correspond with the
subject to risks and uncertainties. If one or more of these terms “material” and “materiality” as defined by or
risks or uncertainties materializes, or if management’s construed in accordance with securities law or as used
underlying assumptions prove to be incorrect, actual in the context of financial statements and reporting.
results may differ materially from those contemplated The information set forth in this report reflects the 2023
by a forward-looking statement. calendar year unless otherwise noted and Zoetis reserves
the right to update its measurement techniques and
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date
methodologies in the future.
on which they are made. Zoetis expressly disclaims any
obligation to update or revise any forward-looking
statement in this 2023 Sustainability Report, whether
as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
A further list and description of risks, uncertainties and
other matters can be found in our most recent Annual
Report on Form 10-K, including in the sections thereof
captioned “Forward-Looking Statements and Factors
That May Affect Future Results” and “Item 1A. Risk
Factors,” in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and
in our Current Reports on Form 8-K. These filings and
subsequent filings are available online at www.sec.gov,
www.zoetis.com, or on request from Zoetis.
