Our journey toward
a better world
2021 SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS UPDATE
Introduction Communities Animals Planet 2
Contents
Introduction 02
A Letter from our CEO 03
Driven to Care 05
About this Report 06
About our Company 07
Communities 10
Care and Collaboration
Caring for our Colleagues 13
Caring for our Communities 20
Animals 27
Innovation in Animal Health
Innovation 28
Combatting Diseases 32
Our journey toward a
Antibiotic Stewardship 34
better world for animals, Access to Veterinary Care in Emerging Markets 35
people and the planet. Planet The Drive to Protect Our Planet 37
Minimize our Carbon Footprint 38
Reduce our Environmental Footprint 42
With the belief that Rethink our Packaging 44
Communities Animals Planet
healthier animals are Care and Innovation in The Drive to
Collaboration Animal Health Protect Our Planet
essential to a healthier
future, we designed our
sustainability efforts
across three key areas:
Read more: Read more: Read more:
2021 SASB and 2020 Sustainability 2020 ESG Appendix
ESG Index Report
Introduction Communities Animals Planet 3
A LETTER FROM OUR CEO In a world filled with Communities: Care and Collaboration
uncertainty and conflict, Our colleagues are passionate about driving
Purpose and
our purpose to nurture our world and
our purpose guides and
humankind by advancing care for animals—
sustains us as we care for
Innovation Drive Our whether they are collaborating with a farmer to
animals, people and the track health data on their herds, innovating in
a lab or introducing a life-changing product to
Sustainability Journey planet we share.
veterinary practices. We have a responsibility
to do whatever we can to support them.
We are on a journey to nurture our world and
humankind by advancing care for animals.
At Zoetis, we strive to create an environment
Along the way, our colleagues boldly embrace
where colleagues feel like they belong,
challenges and opportunities to champion
are heard and valued for their unique
a healthier, more sustainable future for all.
talents and experiences. In 2021, we made
steady progress in cultivating a diverse,
Our Driven to Care long-term sustainability
equitable and inclusive workplace. Doing
goals include specific, measurable
so is a top priority, because diversity drives
commitments across communities, animals and
innovation and deeper collaboration with
the planet. This 2021 sustainability progress
customers—all resulting in better care for
update highlights how we are mobilizing
the animals we love and depend on.
these commitments, such as cultivating a
flexible, inclusive workplace; providing grants,
To advance our goals, we partnered with
training and scholarships for veterinarians
organizations, industry associations and
and farmers; combatting diseases that
institutions to expand and diversify our
jeopardize animal and human health; and
talent, and hosted our second Annual DE&I
innovating in ways that protect the planet.
Summit with colleagues to share the story
of our ongoing journey. I am also pleased to
Zoetis closed 2021 with our strongest
report that 92% of our workforce took part
performance yet, demonstrating that animal
in one or more DE&I training programs.
health medicines, vaccines, diagnostics and
devices remain essential – even in times of
uncertainty. In this report, I invite you to learn
how our Driven to Care sustainability initiative
supports our company’s growth and, most of
all, the health and well-being of our world.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet 4
We found effective ways to support our Our innovations go beyond the farm. Around progress on our planet goals by developing
colleagues during the past year and did the world, the COVID-19 pandemic heightened a clear roadmap to achieve our targets to
Caring for Colleagues and
the same for the customers we serve. We awareness of the need to prevent the spread minimize energy waste, reduce fleet emissions
Customers in Ukraine
announced the Zoetis Foundation in 2021, of diseases—not only to protect people and and expand renewable energy sourcing.
As the deepening war in Ukraine
and through the Foundation, we dispersed society but animals, too. In 2021, we donated
continues to test the resilience of our global Also, to reduce our environmental footprint,
$932,000 through grants to advance more than 11,000 doses of our COVID vaccine
community, I am proud of our ongoing
we developed processes and policies
opportunities for veterinarians and farmers. for animals, and have committed an additional
efforts to provide care for our colleagues
to ensure our new product packaging
In addition, we invested $7.7 million in our 15,000 doses to zoos, conservatories and
and customers in Ukraine, the animals in
designs meet customer and environmental
their care, and relief to local communities. communities through our corporate giving. other organizations in over a dozen countries.
considerations. We created a Packaging
Together with zoo veterinarians, we are
Our teams on the ground in Eastern Animals: Innovation in Animal Health Council to shepherd this effort, and our
helping to protect the health and well-being
Europe have worked tirelessly with care company joined the Sustainable Packaging
Healthy, productive livestock animals contribute of more than 300 mammalian species.
and compassion to provide evacuation
Coalition to engage with other organizations
assistance wherever possible to our to a safe, sustainable food supply and provide
To help provide access to veterinary care and work together on solutions.
colleagues in Ukraine, taking in refugees in sustainable livelihoods for farmers and
in emerging markets, we advanced our
some cases, and coordinating the donation their families. In 2021, we introduced new In aspiring to be the most sustainable
African Livestock Productivity and Health
of goods at the border. Zoetis is providing
products and services to help farmers, and the animal health company in the world,
Advancement (A.L.P.H.A.) initiative and
paid volunteer time off for colleagues in
veterinarians who support them, advance their we have a distance to go before we
the countries bordering Ukraine to assist in trained 25,500 farmers, veterinarians and
environmental, social and animal welfare goals. reach our Driven to Care goals. Yet, we
humanitarian efforts related to the crisis. other personnel to help them improve
For example, we equipped cow-calf producers continue to make meaningful progress,
livestock health and positively impact farmers’
To support our customers and those who with digital herd management software that thanks to our persistent and purpose-
livelihoods in Sub-Saharan Africa. Our goal
care for animals, we have donated $500,000 gives them real-time insights into their cattle’s driven colleagues who care deeply about
is to train 100,000 people by 2025.
worth of critical medicines for food-producing
health—along with blockchain technology creating a sustainable future for customers,
animals. We also have mobilized aid for pets,
to give beef producers and their customers Planet: The Drive to Protect Our Planet communities and animals everywhere.
donating Zoetis products and vaccinating pets
access to cattle information from multiple
and stray dogs at the border, and together with
As we deliver products and services, we
sources. These advanced solutions bring data
global veterinary group IVC Evidensia, we are
must do so in a way that protects the planet
insights together to help cattle producers
supplying donations of much-needed vaccines,
we all call home. In January 2022, we
parasiticides and other medicines for pets from make earlier, more informed decisions to
announced updated climate goals for our
Ukraine in veterinary clinics across Europe. keep their animals healthy and productive.
operations to be carbon neutral by 2030, and
I am encouraged by the increasing generosity With our customers always top of mind, we accelerated our renewable goal by 20 Kristin Peck
of our Zoetis colleagues, who have contributed
we also strengthened collaborations years, committing to source 100% renewable CEO, Zoetis
more than $90,000 to the Zoetis Foundation’s
with external organizations to drive energy by 2030. We continue to examine our
Red Cross microsite. The Zoetis Foundation
sustainable livestock production. broader environmental footprint and make
is matching colleague donations up to
$150,000 donated to the Red Cross.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet 5
Driven to
Our Driven to Care Strategic Pillars
Care Strategy
Communities Animals Planet
In 2021, Zoetis launched Driven
Care and Innovation in The Drive to
to Care, the company’s first
Collaboration Animal Health Protect Our Planet
sustainability initiative, to formalize
our commitments aligned to three
pillars – Communities, Animals and
Planet. As we strive to be the most
sustainable animal health company
in the world, we are committed to
building a healthier future for all.
We support and partner with our We use our expertise in We steward resources responsibly
Driven to Care builds on our purpose to nurture
colleagues, communities and the animal health to solve and minimize our impact, as we
the world and humankind by advancing care
people who care for animals. We sustainability challenges deliver products and services that
for animals, and reflects our commitments
to our colleagues, customers, animals and achieve more by working together facing animals and people. advance the health of animals.
the planet we share. Our sustainability
toward our common goals.
aspirations also provide a roadmap for how
Zoetis can help make an impact and drive
the achievement of the United Nations
Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs).
Launched in 2015, the 17 UN
SDGs are a call for action to make
measurable progress to end poverty,
ensure prosperity for all people
and protect the planet by 2030.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet 6
About
this Report
Board’s (SASB) Health Care – Biotechnology
2021 marked Zoetis’ best revenue growth
& Pharmaceuticals industry standards, the
performance as a business. We remain deeply
Task Force on Climate-related Financial
committed to our purpose to nurture the
Disclosures (TCFD) recommendations
world and humankind by advancing care for
and the United Nations Sustainable
animals. In communities around the world,
Development Goals. In 2021, we also
we stand by our customers – from livestock
completed the CDP climate change survey.
farmers to veterinarians and pet owners – who
raise and care for animals. They are essential
The discussion and data points in this
for our continued growth and innovation.
report reflect the 2021 calendar year unless
otherwise noted. Select case studies and
This year, we present our 2021 Sustainability
programs feature information from 2022.
Progress Update as part of a new biennial
report approach to share the progress
of our Driven to Care strategy. For those
looking for a more detailed disclosure on
Read more:
our environmental, social and governance
2021 SASB and ESG Index
programs and practices, please see our
2020 Sustainability Report and 2020
ESG Appendix. We also transitioned our
sustainability reporting into an interactive Read more:
website experience in an effort to create 2020 Sustainability Report
a single destination for stakeholders to view
our sustainability commitments and progress
towards our Driven to Care aspirations.
Read more:
2020 ESG Appendix
While developing our sustainability programs
and ESG disclosures, we considered the
disclosure frameworks and guidance of
Championing a healthier, more
leading sustainability organizations, such
sustainable future for all
as the Sustainability Accounting Standards
Introduction Communities Animals Planet 7
About our
Our name, Zoetis (zō-EH-tis), has its root in Our Core Beliefs
zo, familiar in words such as zoo and zoology
Company and derived from zoetic, meaning “pertaining Our Core Beliefs are part of the
to life.” It signals our company’s dedication to promise we make to our customers,
supporting the world’s veterinarians, livestock investors and partners, and to each
farmers and pet owners who raise and care other as members of One Zoetis team.
For 70 years, Zoetis has supported
for the animals on which we depend.
• Our Colleagues Make The Difference
those who raise and care for animals
We believe the bond between people
– in veterinary clinics and homes • Always Do The Right Thing
and animals is special and makes
and on farms and ranches. We • Customer Obsessed
the world a better place. By working
care deeply about helping pets live together to advance care for animals, • Run It Like You Own It
longer, healthier lives and improving we are building a more sustainable
• We Are One Zoetis
future that benefits our colleagues,
the health, welfare and productivity
customers, communities and planet.
of food-producing animals.
A Fortune 500 company, Zoetis generated
Our Purpose
revenue of $7.8 billion in 2021 with
approximately 12,100 colleagues. The
Our purpose – to nurture the world and
company’s leading portfolio and pipeline
humankind by advancing care for animals –
of medicines, vaccines, diagnostics and
inspires how we are reimagining animal health.
technologies make a difference in over
We focus on innovations across the continuum
100 countries. We apply our research and
of care for animals – from prediction and
development (R&D), manufacturing, and
prevention to detection and treatment of
technical expertise to create new and
disease. We apply digital technologies and
better animal health advancements to
data analytics to help integrate the continuum
address the animal health and business
of care and create unique solutions for our
challenges our customers face every day.
customers. We also continue to develop
our highly engaged colleagues who help us
champion a healthier, more sustainable future.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet 8
Zoetis at a Glance1
8 7 100+
core species supported major product categories – countries where our
Revenue by
by Zoetis— dogs, cats and vaccines, anti-infectives, products are sold Revenue
Product
horses (collectively, companion parasiticides, dermatology,
by Species2
animals) and cattle, swine, medicated feed additives, Category2
poultry, fish and sheep animal health diagnostics,
12,100
(collectively, livestock) other pharmaceutical products
total number of colleagues
28 $508M
global manufacturing R&D investment $7.776B
Dogs and cats – 58% Vaccines – 22%
sites – all dedicated to (expense) in 2021
delivering a reliable supply Cattle – 20% Parasiticides – 21%
revenue in 2021
of quality products
Swine – 9% Anti-infectives – 16%
3,800
Poultry – 7% Dermatology – 15%
1,300 Horses – 3% Other Pharmaceuticals – 13%
approximate field
Fish – 2% Medicated Feed Additives – 5%
force members (sales
approximate number representatives and veterinary Sheep and Other – 1% Animal Health Diagnostics – 5%
of R&D colleagues technical representatives)
Other Non-Pharmaceuticals – 3%
300
approximate number 1 All figures are as of December 31, 2021.
of product lines
2 R evenue charts by species and product category exclude revenues associated with
Client Supply Services and Human Health, which represented 1% of total 2021 revenue.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet 9
Selected as one of Named one of Fast Earned a top 10
Awards and
Newsweek’s America’s Company’s Most spot on Seramount
Recognition
Most Responsible Innovative Companies Top Companies
Companies, ranked in 2022, ranked 8th in for Executive
#71 out of 500 in the Corporate Social Women in 2021
its first year Responsibility category
Zoetis product Librela® Zoetis Named Among For the eighth year
won Best New Investor’s Business in a row, one of
Companion Animal Daily’s Best 100 Seramount 100 Best
Product as the first companies for ESG, Companies (previously
monoclonal antibody recognized for work to known as the Working
approved to treat establish meaningful Mother 100 Best
OA pain in dogs won environmental, social Companies list)
IHS Markit award and governance values
Certified as 2021 Named to Seramount Awarded five stars in Recognized for
Canada’s Best Best Companies the area of Governance our commitment to
Workplaces™ for Dads list for on the 2021 advancing diversity,
for inclusion the first time Hispanic Association equity and inclusion
on Corporate in the workplace
Responsibility in Seramount
(HACR) Index Inclusion Index
Introduction Communities Animals Planet 10
Communities
Care and
collaboration
We support and partner with our
colleagues, communities and the
people who care for animals. We
achieve more by working together
toward our common goals.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet 11
ASPIRATION
Create a sustainable governance framework
TARGET 2021 PROGRESS
• Integrate sustainability into our strategic • Through our Driven to Care strategy, we
planning and resource allocation processes have embedded sustainability goals and
aspirations into our key business functions.
• Establish an effective approach to • We have continued to report in line with
external sustainability disclosures best practice sustainability frameworks
and to engage with stakeholders to
advance our program and disclosures.
Sustainability
Program
Zoetis is driven by a singular purpose: to are embedded throughout the organization
nurture our world and humankind by advancing and key business functions. To drive further
care for animals. As the world’s leading animal accountability, compensation for members
Governance health company, sustainability and ESG of our Executive Team is based on multiple
issues are important priorities for our Board business objectives, including the management
of Directors, CEO and senior management, of the company’s sustainability initiatives.
and cascades across our enterprise. Our
Executive Vice President, Corporate Affairs,
Communications and Chief Sustainability
In 2020, we conducted an ESG materiality
Officer who reports directly to the CEO and
assessment to help us strategically identify the
is a member of the Zoetis Executive Team,
sustainability topics that have an impact on society
helps define the ESG agenda and provides
and our business, and to inform our Driven to
daily management and oversight of our global Care strategy. Additional information about the
sustainability initiatives and goals. While the assessment and the results can be found on
Chief Sustainability Officer guides our goals page 15 of our 2020 Sustainability Report.
and direction, our sustainability priorities
Introduction Communities Animals Planet 12
In early 2022, we changed the name of our Board of Directors
Corporate Governance Committee to the
Board of Directors:
AUDIT HUMAN CORPORATE QUALITY &
Corporate Governance and Sustainability
Oversees our sustainability
RESOURCES GOVERNANCE & INNOVATION
Committee to reflect its primary program and strategy, with
SUSTAINABILITY
• Enterprise Risk • DE&I • Waste and packaging
responsibility for overseeing strategies, specific oversight responsibility
Management • Natural resource/
initiatives, activities and disclosures • Human capital / • Colleague health assigned to each committee
climate change
• Data privacy and security colleague engagement and safety
regarding ESG and sustainability, including
(incl. cybersecurity) • Public policy
climate, citizenship and public affairs matters. • Compensation • Animal welfare Select sustainability
• Financial disclosures • Community engagement • Product safety and quality
The Committee also coordinates the ESG oversight responsibilities
activities of our other Board committees • ESG disclosures • Human health impacts
and reports regularly to the full Board on
the progress of the company’s sustainability
Zoetis Executive Team
Zoetis Executive Team (ZET): Advises on
initiatives. The Chief Sustainability Officer
sustainability strategy, drives accountability and
provides periodic updates to the full Board
CEO ensures adequate resourcing and approves decisions
and to the Corporate Governance and
Sustainability Committee. Each Committee
of the Board of Directors also contributes EVP HR & EVP Corp. EVP US Ops EVP Strategy EVP Int’l EVP Global EVP General EVP Zoetis
Affairs, EVP R&D & Customer & Commercial Manufacturing EVP CFO
to the oversight of Zoetis’ sustainability Global Ops Operations Counsel Tech & Digital
Comms, Experience Development and Supply
program and strategy and helps inform
Sustainability
the Board’s ultimate oversight.
Additional information about our corporate
ZET liaison
Steering Councils:
governance practices, including committee Animal Health
Corporate Community & Strategy Planet Reporting & Disclosures Launching in 2022, these will align
charters and other governance documents Innovation Steering
Sustainability Governance Steering Council Steering Council business and sustainability priorities,
Council
can be found on the Corporate Governance Team drive accountability for progress
section of our website www.zoetis.com. against goals within the pillar
Cross-Functional Working Groups
Support and Cross-Functional Working Groups:
guide Working
Implementation teams with cross-
Groups
functional representation that
execute, track and report on
Global progress for key initiative areas,
US International Strategy &
Finance Legal HR R&D Manufacturing including the packaging council
Operations Operations Commercial
& Supply and philanthropy working group
Functional and/or Market
Functional and/or Market Sustainability Leads & Teams
Sustainability Leads & Teams:
Individuals with dedicated
sustainability responsibilities that
Green Teams & Overall Colleague Engagement
drive execution in their function
Introduction Communities Animals Planet 13
ASPIRATION
Support our colleagues and cultivate a safe,
flexible, diverse and inclusive workplace
Increase 2021 PROGRESS Increase 2021 PROGRESS
representation Women at director +1% representation of Colleagues +2.5%
level or above (People of Color)
of women at the people of color at
director level and all levels in the U.S.
DEC 2021 DEC 2021
above globally to 35.0% to 25% by 2025 23.8%
40% by 2025 DEC 2020 DEC 2020
34.0% 21.3%
JUN 2020 JUN 2020
32.0% 21.0%
Caring for Increase 2021 PROGRESS Increase 2021 PROGRESS
representation of Colleagues (Black) +0.4% representation of Colleagues (Latinx) +0.7%
Black colleagues Latinx colleagues
in the U.S. to in the U.S. to
DEC 2021 DEC 2021
our Colleagues 5% by 2025 4.6% 6% by 2025 5.9%
DEC 2020 DEC 2020
4.2% 5.2%
JUN 2020 JUN 2020
4.0% 5.0%
Be a top 100 leader 2021 PROGRESS • Named one of Seramount’s 100 • Recognized as a Seramount Best
for workplace • Achieved 100% on the Best Companies (previously Company for Multicultural Women
Corporate Equality Index, known as Working Mother
inclusion in key • Recognized as one of 25 Best
earning the designation of a 100 Best Companies List) for
focus areas Companies for Latinos by
Best Place to Work for LGBTQ+ the eighth year in a row
Latino Leaders Magazine
(women, people
Equality in 2021 and 2022
• Earned a Top 10 spot on
of color, LGBTQ+)
Seramount’s “Top 75 Companies
for Executive Women” list
Commit to diverse 2021 PROGRESS
slates and interview Diverse slates and
panels as we hire interview panels are
required for open roles.
for all positions
Introduction Communities Animals Planet 14
Our Colleagues 2021
Advancing Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
At Zoetis, we understand the Global Workforce
RACE/ETHNICITY – U.S. WORKFORCE 2021 2020
importance of embracing diversity
Outside the U.S. – 6,200
White 76.2% 78.7%
to drive innovation, collaboration
Black 4.6% 4.2% U.S. based – 5,900
and relationships with our customers.
Asian 10.5% 9.4%
We are committed to accelerating
Hispanic/Latinx 5.9% 5.2%
inclusion, equity and more diverse
Other 2.8% 2.5%
representation across the company, Race/Ethnicity – U.S. Workforce
as demonstrated through the
GENDER – GLOBAL WORKFORCE 2021 2020 White – 76.2%
diverse make-up of our leadership
Male 54% 55% Black – 4.6%
team and Board across gender,
Female 46% 45%
Asian – 10.5%
ethnicities and experiences. Their
Hispanic/Latinx – 5.9%
passion and support for DE&I has GENDER – GLOBAL MANAGEMENT1 2021 2020
Other – 2.8%
been instrumental and unwavering.
Male 65% 66%
Female 35% 34%
We strive to create an environment where
colleagues feel valued and cared for. We have
Gender – Global Workforce
been taking concrete steps to attract more
diverse candidates, foster a more inclusive Male – 54%
environment through new partnerships
45% Female – 46%
with diverse organizations, develop our
own Colleague Resource Groups and
of our executive team is of a diverse racial
increase training and education on DE&I
topics for our colleagues. DE&I is a top and ethnic background, including Asian,
priority for our colleagues and a competitive Black, Hispanic/Latinx and Mixed Race
advantage for our business every day. Gender – Global Management1
For a more detailed report of Male – 65%
our U.S. diversity metrics, see 45%
Female – 35%
our 2021 EEO-1 report.
of executive team are women,
including our CEO
1 Management levels defined as Director Level and above.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet 15
Partnering for Change (MANRRS): Zoetis partners with national Advancing DE&I Diversity, Equity &
organizations focused on connecting
Our commitment to advancing DE&I starts Takes All of Us Inclusion Summits
underrepresented students and
with our CEO, Kristin Peck, the Board of
professionals with career opportunities.
Directors and our executive team. We We believe DE&I training and education In 2021, we hosted our 2nd annual virtual
partner with organizations and institutions • Colleges of Veterinary Medicine: We nurture
are critical in establishing and maintaining Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Summit.
to expand and diversify the talent pool for long-standing partnerships, including
a supportive, inclusive work environment. The theme of the session was “Captivating
our company and industry. Our partnerships those with Historically Black Colleges and
Zoetis offers DE&I training for all colleagues Hearts and Minds through Storytelling.”
and external commitments include: Universities, to support leadership and
on inclusion, valuing differences, unconscious It featured updates on our DE&I journey,
diversity among future veterinarians.
• CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion: In the bias, avoiding exclusion, and spotting and a panel with executive and senior leaders
• The Association of American Veterinary
largest CEO-driven business commitment avoiding microaggressions. We also offer on how we are embedding DE&I into our
Medical Colleges (AAVMC): In addition to
to advance diversity, our CEO and Zoetis
training for people managers on leading business, an inspiring keynote on the
these Zoetis initiatives, the Zoetis Foundation
commit to work with other CEOs to share
supports AAVMC with funding for the Zoetis inclusively, narrative storytelling, allyship topics of belonging, inclusion and allyship,
best practices and exchange ideas and
Foundation Veterinary Student Scholarship and courageous conversations. In 2022, we as well as a conversation between the
learnings to build more inclusive workplaces.
Program, which focuses on addressing launched Cultural Explorer training in eight keynote speaker and our CEO, Kristin
• Catalyst: Our CEO serves on the Board the issue of student debt and helps foster
languages to encourage respectful curiosity Peck. The 2021 summit also included a
of Catalyst, a global non-profit working diversity in the profession. In 2021, the
and open conversation about differences Colleague Resource Group (CRG) fair,
with leading companies to help build Foundation provided $670,000 in funding.
to deepen mutual understanding and value where each CRG hosted a session for
workplaces that work for women From 2010 to 2020, Zoetis and its legacy
and underrepresented groups. companies provided more than $7.9 million what each colleague brings to work. colleagues around the globe to learn
more and get involved. More than 3,000
in scholarships through this program to
• INROADS and Minorities in Agriculture,
support the future of the veterinary industry. colleagues attended the summit, with
Natural Resources and Related Sciences
over 650 colleagues attending one
or more of the CRG fair sessions.
92%
of our colleagues participated
in one or more of our DE&I
education offerings in 2021
Introduction Communities Animals Planet 16
Colleague Resource
Groups
Our CRGs spread awareness, foster
inclusivity and make a positive impact ALIVE50+ ART BELIEVERS
on our business and communities
Age-less Inspirations Valued Asians Rising Together Black Employees Leading in
by bringing together colleagues with
& Experienced Inclusion, Equity, Vision, Education,
shared experiences, their allies and any 115 members
Recruitment and Strategy
colleague who wants to learn more. 110 members
145 members
DNA LaZos Proud and Welcome
1,500
The Differentlyabled Latinx / Hispanic CRG LGBTQ+ CRG
Neurodiversity Alliance
global active members
75 members 155 members
across all CRGs1 110 members
For additional information about
diversity, equity and inclusion
program, see pages 17–26 of
our 2020 Sustainability Report.
WAVES ZECC
Women Achieving Vision, Zoetis Early Career Champions
Excellence and Success
285 members
520 members
1 Membership numbers are as of April 2022.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet 17
Our Colleagues FAMILY-FRIENDLY AND INCLUSIVE INVESTING IN OUR COLLEAGUES’
BENEFITS EDUCATION
88%
Make the
Given our commitment to help our At Zoetis, we believe that investing in our
colleagues excel, we offer a wide range colleagues’ education is an investment in our
colleague engagement rate
Difference of benefits that support their variety of future. The Zoetis U.S. Tuition Reimbursement
based on engagement needs. In the U.S., these include: Program reimburses full-time eligible
surveys conducted in 2021 colleagues with up to $15,000 annually to
• Paid Parental Leave program provides all
further their education, develop individual
Our colleagues distinguish Zoetis from our colleagues six weeks of 100% paid leave
potential, and improve their level of professional
competition. Fueled by a shared purpose after welcoming a child through birth or
and technical achievement. In 2021, 268
to nurture our world, our colleagues around adoption. Birth mothers receive additional
Comprehensive Benefits colleagues received tuition reimbursement.
the globe take pride in our customers, our fully paid short-term disability benefits, and
About 45% of Tuition Reimbursement
Support our Colleagues
company culture and our contributions to the primary adoptive parent receives an
participants in 2021 were women and about
humankind by advancing care for animals. additional six weeks of paid leave through
We are proud to offer an array of benefits, 25% of participants were colleagues of color.
They have helped us create an award- our Adoption Paid Leave of Absence.
policies and programs to support colleague
winning workplace and become a leading In addition, in 2021, we introduced Student
well-being, ranging from health and financial • Flexible return to work program offers a
partner of choice in animal health. Loan Repayment benefits to provide up
wellness to family resources. We pride phased return to work following parental
to $150 per month to help U.S. colleagues
ourselves on offering competitive packages leave, allowing new parents the flexibility to
repay their own student loans. In its first
designed to support colleagues and their ease back into their full-time job over time.
year, 640 colleagues signed up for the
We strive to families, from access to premier healthcare
• Inclusive fertility benefits and
program, with 36% of the participants being
to retirement savings benefits that help
surrogacy benefits.
female and 14% colleagues of color.
create a work
colleagues reach their personal savings goals.
• Full coverage for gender transition related
atmosphere where to a diagnosis of gender dysphoria,
based on guidelines provided by the
colleagues feel valued World Professional Association for
Transgender Health (WPATH).
and supported, feel
• Caregiver and parental education support,
including a parental support benefit for
inspired to give their
parents raising school-age children with
learning and behavior needs; caregiver
best every day and feel
support to help colleagues with sick or aging
proud of the company loved ones; and college coaching programs
for colleagues and their high school-age
they work for. students with test prep and tutoring benefits.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet 18
Empowering LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS
Colleagues to Excel
We aspire to keep our Zoetis colleagues
growing and fulfilled through a series of
At Zoetis, we work to nurture and develop the
leadership development programs. The
talent we have into the talent we need. As we
President’s Leadership Development
continue to innovate and evolve our priorities,
Program (PLDP) develops high-potential
helping our colleagues develop and grow is
colleagues in our U.S. Operations. In a year-
a strategic priority for our business. Our goal
long program, PLDP engages colleagues
is to enable each colleague the opportunity
to work on real business-critical projects
to build leadership capabilities and drive
outside of their job scope and receive senior
organizational results. We offer opportunities
leadership mentorship. By the end of the
for growth at all levels of the company
program, participants emerge with increased
through programmatic development, annual
leadership confidence and business acumen.
performance reviews, coaching and feedback.
Our Emerging Senior Leaders
A TAILORED APPROACH
initiative strengthens current and
TO DEVELOPMENT
future leader competencies to prepare
a strong and diverse leadership bench.
Every Zoetis colleague has the opportunity to
The year-long program focuses on skill-based
create a customized, individualized, self-paced
development initiatives for high potential
individual development plan. Through the Your
senior colleagues in international markets.
Development Matters program, colleagues can
leverage tools, trainings, and self-assessment
Our Leadership Essentials program focuses
capabilities to define their career aspirations and
on supporting colleagues new to people
create individual development plans to achieve
management by helping managers build
their goals with the support of their managers.
and motivate their teams. The curriculum
stresses the importance of diversity with topics
Zoetis aims to set colleagues up for success
including recruitment and candidate selection,
with Core Competencies, a set of skills and
leadership behavior assessment, career
behaviors we defined within each level of
development, performance management,
the organization. The Core Competencies
emotional intelligence and more.
give colleagues a practical tool to evaluate
and develop a variety of skills and behaviors
For additional information about how
that result in more effective career planning.
we attract, retain, develop and engage
Additionally, a 360-degree feedback tool offers
our workforce, see pages 17–26
colleagues feedback and tools to identify
of our 2020 Sustainability Report.
development opportunities in service of a
personalized leadership developmental plan.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet 19
Focused on Health and Safety Performance
Colleague METRIC1 2021 2020 2019
Health and Total Injury Rate (TIR) 2 0.50 0.46 0.82
Lost Time Injury Rate (LTIR) 2 0.26 0.20 0.24
Safety
Fatality Rate3 0 0 0.02
U.S. OSHA Voluntary Protection Program OSHA VPP Star: 3 U.S. OSHA VPP Star: 3 U.S. OSHA VPP Star: 3 U.S.
At Zoetis, we are deeply committed to ensuring
(VPP) Star and Zoetis H&S Star Sites4, 5 manufacturing sites and manufacturing sites and manufacturing sites and
a safe workplace for our colleagues. Our
1 logistics center 1 logistics center 1 logistics center
purpose anchors all we do, including striving
to build a best-in-class safety culture with Zoetis H&S Star: 2 global Zoetis H&S Star: 1 global
operational policies and procedures in place. manufacturing sites manufacturing sites
To ensure we uphold the highest level of
1 These metrics cover worldwide operations.
rigor, we maintain processes including health
2 U.S. average for our industry in 2020 were 1.6 for TIR and 0.7 for LTIR. In 2019, U.S. average were 1.6 for TIR and 0.5 for LTIR. 2021 industry averages were not available at
and safety training programs, corporate
the time of publication.
audits, leadership process confirmations,
3 One fatality occurred in 2019 and was transportation related.
an injury prevention program, and daily,
4 OSHA VPP Star recognizes employers and employees who demonstrate exemplary achievement in preventing and controlling occupational safety and health hazards in
weekly and monthly floor-level inspections.
the development, implementation, and continuous improvement of their safety and health management system. We extend the principles of the OSHA VPP Star recognition
We foster an open, mindful workplace
across our sites worldwide through the Zoetis H&S Star program.
culture whereby individuals can identify
5 In 2021, we had 41 manufacturing and logistics sites (23 locations in the U.S. and 18 global), 5 primary R&D sites (2 location in the U.S. and 3 global), and 4 global sites
risky behavior in themselves and talk to
supporting other business units. In 2020, we had 40 manufacturing and logistics sites (22 locations in the U.S. and 18 global), 4 primary R&D sites (1 location in the U.S. and
each other when they see an unsafe behavior.
3 global), and 4 global sites supporting other business units. In 2019, we had 41 manufacturing and logistics sites (23 locations in the U.S. and 18 global), 4 primary R&D sites
This allows each person to be involved in
(1 location in the U.S. and 3 global), and 4 global sites supporting other business units.
keeping themselves and others safe.
6 We extend the principles of the OSHA Voluntary Protection Program (VPP) Star recognition across our sites worldwide through the Zoetis H&S Star program.
Our strong safety culture has enabled us to
achieve solid safety performance, with our
total injury rates (TIR) and lost time injury rates
(LTIR) being lower than the industry average.
2 4
For additional information
International sites certified as a U.S. sites certified as Star Sites under
about our health and safety
Zoetis Health and Safety Star Site6 OSHA’s Voluntary Protection Program
program, see page 26 of our
2020 Sustainability Report.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet 20
How We Give Back
Zoetis has a long tradition of caring
for and supporting our communities
$7.7 million
and our approach to giving works
alongside our broader sustainability
invested in communities through
strategy. With our colleagues and
corporate giving in 2021
customers, we work to bring our
purpose to life – from caring for
the animals and people living in
our communities to supporting
colleagues who volunteer.
Caring for our
OUR COMMUNITY EFFORTS FOCUS ON:
Communities
Supporting Expanding Providing
veterinary access to animal care in
professionals animal care disaster relief
Introduction Communities Animals Planet 21
Announcing the Zoetis Foundation
In 2021, we announced the Zoetis Foundation to further our purpose
to nurture our world and humankind by advancing care for animals. We
committed an initial $35 million over five years to support the Foundation’s
three grantmaking priorities – Education, Well-being and Livelihoods.
EDUCATION LIVELIHOODS
Empowering an inclusive veterinary community Healthy livestock are critical to achieving
starts long before the first day of training food security, particularly in regions with
and classes. While enrollment to veterinary exceptionally high incidences of livestock
schools and veterinary technician programs and human disease. To ensure rising food
has been climbing steadily over the past 30 and nutrient needs are met, livestock farming
years, racial and ethnic diversity is still lacking. productivity must be improved. The Zoetis
In addition, veterinary school tuition in the Foundation funds capacity-building initiatives
U.S. has risen at a higher rate than salaries. and business planning programs that help
This has led to high debt loads for veterinary veterinary practices and farmers develop
graduates. The Zoetis Foundation works sustainable businesses, protect family legacy
with partners who provide scholarships, debt and thrive in an increasingly dynamic industry.
relief and other initiatives to drive a more
inclusive veterinary community and broader
access to veterinary and technician training.
$932,000
WELL-BEING
The Zoetis Foundation seeks
Working in the veterinary profession can
disbursed through grants by the
be meaningful and rewarding, full of both
Zoetis Foundation in 2021
opportunities and challenges. However,
to advance opportunities for
compassion fatigue and increased debt,
among other factors, can lead to mental
The Foundation is guided by a board of
veterinarians and farmers
health challenges, including a higher risk of
directors and our colleague-driven Philanthropy
suicide among veterinarians than many other
Working Group. More details on the focus
professions. The Zoetis Foundation’s focus around the world
areas and how we integrate diversity, equity
on mental health emphasizes the importance
and inclusion in all we do can be found
of well-being for veterinary healthcare teams.
on our Zoetis Foundation webpage.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet 22
Resilient Ag Fund and enhance the fish, wildlife, plants practices and assist dairy farmers in
and habitats for current and future accessing markets for their milk. In
Zoetis has a long history of addressing generations in the Northeastern total, this partnership will engage an
important challenges faced by farmers region of the United States. estimated 400 farmers and support
and the Zoetis Foundation is helping implementation of conservation
In 2022, this new conservation initiative
extend our purpose and drive forward improvements on 40 dairy farms.
will award grants to support on-the-
our commitment to our customers and
ground partners who work directly The Zoetis Foundation’s funds will be
our communities. In 2021, the Zoetis
with farmers to encourage the use matched 1:1 with funding and resources
Foundation approved a grant to the
of digital technologies to boost herd from grantees and from federal U.S.
National Fish and Wildlife Foundation in
health and support farm productivity, agencies. The Zoetis Foundation’s
support of the Resilient Ag Accelerator
reduce costs and improve access to investment of $400,000 per year for
Fund, which was created by The
U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Farm two years will fund projects with a
Sustainability Consortium, to accelerate
Bill and other cost-share programs total project value of $1.6 million.
the adoption of conservation practices
that provide direct financial support
by farmers and dairy producers.
to producers for on-farm conservation
This work will help sustain, restore,
Engaging our Colleague
Resource Groups (CRGs)
in Community Giving
The Zoetis Foundation represents the next
chapter in serving our communities – and
it also represents an opportunity for us to
engage our colleagues to give back to causes
that matter to them. Through the Zoetis
Foundation, we launched the CRG giving
program, which invites Zoetis CRGs to propose
organization(s) that are meaningful to the group
for the Zoetis Foundation Board’s review.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet 23
Community Volunteering and Matching Gifts Program
A Customer and Colleague Team Up Zoetis Teams up with Operation
to Support a Community in Malawi Allies Welcome in support
of Afghan Refugees
One of our customers introduced a Zoetis
At Zoetis, our colleagues are committed to
colleague to a nonprofit organization, When
At the end of 2021, Zoetis’ Tech and Digital Team making a positive impact—not only for animals
ASPIRATION
the Saints, whose mission is to end sexual
engaged with the Operation Allies Welcome
and those who care for them, but also for our
exploitation and human trafficking in Malawi.
(OAW) to provide technology donations for Support our
communities. Zoetis provides paid time off for
Thanks to the leadership of a Zoetis colleague,
Afghan Refugees. To support their Digital Equity
When the Saints is now eligible to receive up communities colleagues to volunteer their time, share their
project, Zoetis donated 45 laptops to aid with
to $1,000 per colleague per year through the expertise and participate in other activities
the Afghan Refugee resettlement activities. OAW
Matching Gifts program. This also inspired to help nonprofit organizations and those in
welcomed over 75,000 guests across the country
other colleagues to give, amplifying the impact. on nine military bases, where the donated need. Through the Zoetis Foundation, we are
The contributions from Zoetis colleagues,
computers were used for resume building, job also proud to support a U.S. Matching Gifts
matched by the Foundation, were used to
searching, English as a Second Language (ESL) program and a U.S. Dollars for Doers program.
help build a new dormitory, which allowed TARGET
training, driving lessons, cultural training and
When the Saints to double their capacity more. At the end of the operation, the laptops Volunteer Time Off: Zoetis supports giving
• Contribute 2,500 volunteer days (20,000
and save more lives across Malawi.
were donated to the Afghan refugee guests. back to communities with our Volunteer Day
hours) annually in the communities we serve
Policy, which allows colleagues one day of
paid time off per calendar year to volunteer
An Injured Dog Inspires Years of Giving
for a charitable organization of their choice.
2021 PROGRESS
When an injured dog in Ecuador needed care, a Zoetis colleague created The Dogs of
Otavalo, an organization that helps provide care for the dogs that live on the streets in U.S. Dollars for Doers: The Dollars for
• 5,735 hours of volunteer time contributed
Otavalo, Ecuador. Over the last five years, the organization led trips to Ecuador with a team by our colleagues, 29% of our stated goal. Doers program allows eligible colleagues
of veterinary professionals and volunteers to spay, neuter, vaccinate and treat hundreds of As in-person events become the norm again, to receive a match up to $1,000 per
street dogs in Otavalo. The high-quality care provided would not have been possible without we will continue to encourage our colleagues
colleague per year from the Zoetis
the generosity of Zoetis’ product donations, expert resources and community support. to engage in and lead local volunteering
Foundation, $10 per hour of volunteering,
events for their teams and utilize programs
which can be donated to eligible nonprofit
such as the U.S. Dollars for Doers program.
organizations of the colleague’s choice.
U.S. Matching Gifts: The Matching Gifts
program encourages colleagues to donate
to their favorite nonprofit organizations and
the Zoetis Foundation will match colleague
donations up to $1,000 per colleague per year.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet 24
Supporting Veterinary Professionals
ASPIRATION
Support veterinary professionals
TARGET 2021 PROGRESS
• Provide at least $1 million in scholarships • The Foundation provided grants of $755,000
to veterinary students annually, focusing on for scholarships and Zoetis provided an
underrepresented groups where possible additional approximately $100,000 in
corporate contributions for scholarships to
support over 450 students. In the U.S., 37% of
students supported by the Zoetis Foundation/
Association of American Veterinary Medical
Colleges (AAVMC) Veterinary Student
Scholarship Program were diverse.
The Zoetis Foundation proudly contributed Zoetis is committed to investing in professional
$755,000 to scholarship programs in 2021, programs around the world. In the U.S.,
• Provide access to professional • Zoetis invested in professional programs
programs for veterinarians in the in 100% of our markets, through Zoetis- with an additional approximately $100,000 Zoetis partnered with the American Animal
markets where we have a presence led programs and in partnerships provided in corporate contributions. The Hospital Associate (AAHA) to execute the
with external organizations.
scholarships supported through the Zoetis Beyond Medicine Workshop. This workshop is
Foundation include the AAVMC Veterinary designed to provide veterinarians with hands-
Student Scholarship which provides financial on skills for nonmedical parts of their job,
scholarships to second- and third-year such as client communications, overcoming
veterinary students to address the issue professional challenges and caring for their
of student debt, while also working to well-being. In China, Zoetis colleagues
foster diversity in the veterinary profession. hosted trainings for veterinarians across
The Foundation also funded scholarships a number of areas including dermatology,
through the American Association of Equine anesthesia and laboratory operations.
Practitioners and American Association In the U.K., Zoetis supported the Young
of Bovine Practitioners to support the Vet of the Year Award through the British
development of future equine and bovine Veterinary Association to recognize young
veterinarians. In addition, through Zoetis’ professional vets early in their career.
corporate giving, scholarships were
funded in Canada, Japan and China.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet 25
Expand Veterinary Care Access to Populations In-Need
Building a More Diverse Future: wasn’t until I was a junior in undergrad that I saw
the first Black African American veterinarian,
Veterinarians behind National
and it became a time where I kind of lost faith
Geographic’s Critter Fixers
Expanding veterinary care access to
a little bit because I hadn’t seen anyone who
Drs. Terrence Ferguson and Vernard Hodges, looked like me that was doing what I wanted ASPIRATION populations and communities in need is
two Black veterinarians who founded a to do. And I knew if I became a veterinarian, it critically important to Zoetis. In 2021, we
veterinary hospital in Georgia and star in was going to be very important to me to be that Expand veterinary provided approximately $2.6 million in
Nat Geo’s hit show “Critter Fixers,” sat down bridge between kids and getting in school.”
care access monetary and in-kind donations to support
with Zoetis’ Chief Medical Officer, Dr. Mike
pet owners throughout the world. In Canada,
To encourage the next generation, Dr. Ferguson
McFarland, on a podcast to discuss their to populations
and Dr. Hodges created It Takes a Village we provided the Cross Land Band of Indians
commitment to supporting vets of the future.
in need
Foundation, to help teach basic business skills to with rabies vaccines to support the remote
On the podcast, they discussed their dream of kids interested in veterinary medicine. In 2022, indigenous community who has limited to
becoming veterinarians and how discouraging it the Zoetis Foundation commits to expanding the no access to veterinary care available. We
TARGET
had been without Black role models in veterinary It Takes a Village’s “Vet for a Day” program to
also supported remote northern Canadian
medicine. Dr. Ferguson shares, “I wanted to help attract diverse students to the profession.
• Annually report on the number of pet communities by providing in-kind donations to
become a veterinarian at a very early age. It
owners reached through community
Veterinarians Without Borders for temporary
programs and in-kind donations
veterinary clinics in these under-served
communities. In Brazil, for the third year,
2021 PROGRESS we provided in-kind donations to Patas
Therapeutas, an organization that selects
$2.6 million and trains volunteers to visit hospitals
and clinics with pets, providing emotional
support for patients, children and elderly.
• Zoetis provided approximately $2.6 million
in monetary and in-kind donations to
support over 119,000 pet owners in need.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet 26
Provide Animal Care in Disaster Relief Supplier Diversity
We recognize that underrepresented Supplier Training and
ASPIRATION Offering Relief During suppliers are not always given the same Certifications: We take a
opportunity to compete for our business as proactive approach in assisting
the Belgium floods
Provide animal
their larger, more widely known counterparts. underrepresented groups to
After heavy floods in Belgium, Zoetis Benelux
care in disaster Therefore, we maintain a strong focus on qualify for tendering processes by helping
took swift action to donate 50,000 euros to
promoting diversity in our supply chain.1 suppliers better understand Zoetis’ supplier
relief support communities in-need. We designated
In 2021, we launched a supplier diversity needs. We also help suppliers navigate the
funds to local organizations, including the Red
program to further enable fair competition process for certifying as a diverse supplier.
Cross and two animal rescue organizations–
The Sociéte Royale Protectrice des Animaux and we formalized a corporate-level council
Internal Engagement: We
TARGET and Un combat pour vivre—in the region of comprised of cross-functional team members
have internal awareness
Liège, where the disaster hit the hardest. with a shared aspiration to increase supplier
• Annually report on the number of campaigns on supplier diversity
diversity. Our supplier diversity program
animals cared for through community Zoetis was proud to help animals find safety to engage all colleagues
is focused on the following areas:
programs and in-kind donations when pet owners were displaced. The two
in helping us achieve our goals.
animal rescue organizations ensured animals
External Council Memberships: We
were fed and cared for, free of charge, and
2021 PROGRESS work with external organizations to
that animals who were found wandering
promote diversity and inclusivity.
around the flooded areas were placed in
• Zoetis provided approximately $1.6
foster care or staff members’ homes. We are corporate members of
million in monetary and in-kind product
donations to care for over 721,000 the National Minority Supplier
animals impacted by natural disasters. Development Council (NMSDC), National Gay
& Lesbian Chamber of Commerce (NGLCC)
and Women’s Business Enterprise National
Through charitable contributions and in-kind Council (WBENC) development councils. We
product donations, we support our customers continue to evaluate memberships in other
and the animals they care for when they are councils and other opportunities to increase
impacted by wildfires, tornados, hurricanes, our visibility in the diverse supplier community.
flooding, windstorms and more. In 2021,
Zoetis supported approximately $1.6 million in
monetary and product donations to help more
than 721,000 animals in need. We partner
with local foundations to support communities
during times of natural disasters, including
1 Zoetis defines diverse suppliers as women-owned, minority-owned, small
donating $30,000 to the support farmers in
business, LGBTQ-owned, veteran-owned and other disadvantaged enterprises.
South Africa with the Agri Relief Foundation.
To qualify, a supplier must apply to one or more certifying organizations.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet 27
Animals
Innovation
in Animal
Health
We use our expertise in
animal health to solve
sustainability challenges
facing animals and people.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet 28
Innovating for Sustainable Solutions
ASPIRATION
Provide products and services
that enable productive and
sustainable livestock farms that
preserve animal welfare
TARGET 2021 PROGRESS
• Innovate to create and drive adoption • Incorporated key environmental, social
of key sustainable animal health solutions and farmer economical considerations
Innovation in
into our new product evaluation
process which includes key evaluation
milestones as part of our R&D pipeline.
Animal Health
• Joined external organizations Global
Roundtable for Sustainable Beef and
The Sustainability Consortium to support
collaboration across the livestock value chain
and drive sustainable livestock production.
• Equip our customers with innovative products • Introduced products and services to support
to support their ambitious environmental, our customers in meeting their sustainability
social and animal welfare goals and animal care goals, including Performance
Ranch, a cow-calf management software
and BLOCKYARD™, a blockchain solution;
gained U.S. approval for M.bovis vaccine
to help prevent bovine respiratory disease;
expanded claims for IMPROVAC® to improve
sustainable pork production; and, invested
in more research to support dairy producers’
use of CLARIFIDE® genomic testing.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet 29
Our scientists are focused on medicines, Our innovation focuses on the important
vaccines, diagnostics and technologies role healthy animals play in creating a
Sustainable Sustainability sits on the GRSB executive
to help livestock farmers raise healthier, healthier future. Healthier animals have a
committee, allowing Zoetis to play
more productive animals which ultimately smaller environmental footprint and are Partnerships
an important role in helping advance
contribute to safe, sustainable food supply critical for sustainable livestock production.
sustainable livestock production. In 2021,
and farmers’ own livelihoods – especially Our products and services support our We engage with organizations,
we joined The Sustainability Consortium
in developing countries. Driven by the livestock customers in their essential such as the Global Roundtable for
with a focus on supporting efforts to
need to solve sustainability challenges work to sustainably produce protein Sustainable Beef (GRSB) and the Dairy
increase supply chain transparency and
facing animals and people, our expertise in and our companion animal customers Sustainability Framework, to support
sustainability with U.S. pork producers.
animal health innovation directly supports as they address unmet medical needs collaboration among farmers, ranchers,
Our U.S. team has been involved with
the advancement of the United Nations and deepen our bonds with pets. meat and dairy processors, and food
the U.S. Roundtable for Sustainable Beef
Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs), brands. Our Executive Vice President,
Driven by our purpose, we discover and in developing goals and sector targets.
including SDG 1: No Poverty, SDG 2: Zero Corporate Affairs, Communications and
develop solutions across the continuum
Hunger, SDG 3: Good Health and Well-
of care to predict, prevent, detect and
Being, SDG 5: Gender Equality, SDG 13:
treat health conditions in animals, with
Climate Action and SDG 15: Life on Land.
the aim of helping our customers achieve
their sustainability and animal care goals.
We believe that Our areas of focus include developing
additional vaccines; exploring new classes
the role of animals
of antibiotics for veterinary use only and
must be considered
novel, nonantibiotic anti-infective solutions;
to achieve the UN
and enhancing diagnostics, genetic tests
SDGs, in particular the importance and digital technologies. For example,
of disease prevention in improving our vaccines for poultry and salmonids
have contributed to a reduction in the use
livestock production and ensuring
of antibiotics over the years. One of our
the availability of nutrient-rich
genomic prediction tools helps dairy farmers
foods that many rely on. This is
increase financial sustainability and improve
why we signed the UN Business animal welfare by offering wellness solutions
that significantly reduce disease conditions,
Declaration on Food Systems
morbidity and mortality in dairy cattle.
Transformation as part of the UN
Food Systems Summit held in 2021.
Read more about our commitment to
ensuring healthy animals’ contribution
to a sustainable food system.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet 30
Providing Solutions for
Data Helps Farmers Make Earlier, CLARIFIDE Genomic Testing Helping Pets Live Longer, Agricultural Emissions
More Informed Decisions Happier Lives
Genomic testing can significantly reduce
Improving animal health offers the greatest
the costs of animal health by reducing
Zoetis is building out the intersection of Our products and services are designed
disease incidence and antibiotic use. A opportunity to reduce greenhouse gas
genetics, health management, and data to to help pets live longer, healthier, happier
2020 study published in the Journal of emissions from livestock. Every cow, pig,
help livestock farmers maximize health and lives. We understand the importance of the
well-being, performance and sustainability Dairy Science demonstrated the ability human-animal bond, and we use science and sheep, chicken or fish lost to disease
of CLARIFIDE predictions to accurately
across livestock farming operations. With understanding of our customers’ needs to find represents emissions spent that are not
predict health, production and profitability
consumers’ growing interest in how food- solutions that improve the health, well-being converted into food. We see an opportunity
outcomes in individual dairy animals,
producing animals are raised, we are confident and quality of life for pets. One example is the
to reduce methane emissions per unit
enabling better farm management.
that on-farm data will make a meaningful impact recent launch of LIBRELA® and SOLENSIA® –
of animal protein produced and for our
when shared throughout the supply chain. the first injectable monoclonal antibodies for
In 2019, 1,053 dairy cows across four U.K. farms precision animal health solutions to provide
alleviating osteoarthritis pain in dogs and cats
were genomically tested using CLARIFIDE
Performance Ranch™, a new cow-calf information and decision-making tools to
in Europe and certain other countries. Without
Plus. The genomic predictions accurately
management software, helps cow-calf help livestock farmers optimize input and
treatment, osteoarthritis pain can worsen over
identified animals that produced more milk,
producers easily capture health and
time and seriously affect a cat’s or dog’s long- reduce methane and other waste emissions.
had fewer cases of mastitis and lameness
performance data, manage costs and track
term health and well-being, disrupting the Our R&D efforts in cattle focus on creating
and required fewer antibiotic treatments.
herd inventory in real time. This software
unique bond pets share with their humans. integrated management solutions for the
solution joins the Performance Beef platform,
These results from the U.K. study were complex challenges around these emissions.
expanding the Performance Livestock Analytics
supported by a more in-depth study in the
We approach this challenge from several
offerings for cattle producers. The easy-
U.S., conducted in 2021, which looked at
to-use software provides users insights to angles, including exploring products to
the impact of Dairy Wellness Profit Index
make informed decisions across financials, optimize feed efficiency and health, along
(DWP$). Cows with higher DWP$ were
nutrition, genetics and animal health. Users with genetic tools that can help select for low
healthier (22% less lame cows, needed
are able to access real-time data and see
methane cattle and potentially novel feed
44% less antibiotics), more productive (35%
variations in performance to make more
more milk and 11% less feed) and ultimately additives to reduce methane emissions.
informed decisions earlier regarding the
required 27% less labor for health needs.
health and marketability of their animals.
BLOCKYARD™ helps collect, transfer and
connect information on individual cattle from
multiple sources across the complex beef cattle
production chain. The new blockchain solution,
developed in collaboration with IBM Consulting
leveraging IBM Blockchain Platform on the
IBM Cloud, works with existing health and data
management solutions, such as Performance
Ranch™, INHERIT™ and SELECTVAC®.
BLOCKYARD makes the production, health
and genomic information available to all
stakeholders on a permissioned basis.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet 31
Animal Care and Welfare
Working Collaboratively to Advance
Zoetis is dedicated to helping animals live
Alternatives to Animal Testing
longer, healthier lives through the discovery
Zoetis is committed to cross-industry collaboration to
and development of breakthrough medicines
develop and refine new in-vitro testing and predictive
and therapies. Our Policy on Animal Care and
informatics-based systems that hold promise for
Welfare, which outlines our commitment to
reducing animal usage. By working with associations,
the principles of the 3Rs of animal research governmental agencies and peers, our colleagues
– replacement, reduction and refinement – have helped advance alternatives to animal testing.
reflects our commitment to ensure that animals
In Brazil, the Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock
used in our research are treated humanely.
and Food Supply (MAPA) has introduced a new
regulation that will reduce Target and Laboratory
We believe that animal-based biomedical
Animal Batch Safety animal testing requirements
research in the pharmaceutical industry
for products sold in the country. The new regulation
remains critical in the discovery, evaluation
is a result of a partnership between the local
and regulatory processes that lead to the
regulatory authorities and SINDAN, the animal
development of products designed to save health industry association in Brazil. Zoetis was
or improve animal lives throughout the involved through leadership of SINDAN’s working
world. However, we remain fully committed group for biologics which drove the collaboration.
to the development and use of scientifically
In addition, Zoetis colleagues in Europe played a
validated alternative testing methods
key role in the VAC2VAC initiative dedicated to
deemed acceptable to regulatory authorities
developing quality control testing approaches for
and that do not compromise patient safety human and veterinary vaccines using non-animal
or the effectiveness of our medicines. methods. The six-year project concluded in February
2022 and has resulted in the validation of two in-
Our efforts in this space are discussed vitro assays that are approved as replacements for
in more detail on page 35 of our animal tests. Additional in-vitro assays are still being
2020 Sustainability Report. explored. Moreover, the VAC2VAC project produced
21 peer-reviewed open access publications.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet 32
With at least 75% of emerging infectious price. Our involvement will help contribute
Combatting Diseases
diseases, including COVID-19, having to the OIE’s members’ objectives to reach
an animal origin, understanding the zero human deaths from dog-mediated
connection between animal health and Rabies by 2030 (Zero by 30 Program).
human health is more important than ever.
ASPIRATION In 2021, together with Texas A&M University’s
We organize our response to outbreaks
Health Science Center for Innovation in
Combat diseases that pose of infectious diseases through our Center
Advanced Development and Manufacturing
for Transboundary and Emerging Diseases
the greatest risk to animals
(CIADM), we opened the Transboundary and
(CTED). We mobilize scientific resources
and humans Emerging Disease Vaccine Development
from across the company and work closely
Facility in College Station, Texas. The facility
with leaders from government, health
is focused on accelerating the development
organizations, and the veterinary and
of transboundary and emerging disease
livestock agricultural communities to identify
vaccines – including those for Foot-and-
infectious disease threats early and develop
Mouth Disease (FMD). While FMD vaccines
TARGET 2021 PROGRESS solutions to help rapidly control them.
are the initial focus of the center’s vaccine
• Leverage the Zoetis Center for Transboundary • Continued to invest in developing vaccines
Read more about CTED and how we development, the facility can be expanded
and Emerging Diseases to develop vaccines and diagnostics against emerging
respond rapidly to transboundary to accommodate vaccine development for
for high-impact emerging diseases globally infectious disease including Severe Acute
and emerging diseases here. other emerging diseases in the future.
Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus-2
• Invest in R&D for emerging infectious diseases
(SARS-CoV-2), Foot-and-Mouth Disease
Our expertise in animal diseases and proven
(FMD) and African Swine Fever (ASF).
process of identifying emerging infectious
Foot-and-Mouth Disease (FMD) is a severe and
• Progress: In partnership with Texas A&M
diseases led us to develop SARS-CoV-2 highly contagious viral disease. The FMD virus
University, we opened the Transboundary
diagnostic tests and a vaccine for animals. causes illness in cows, pigs, sheep, goats, deer
and Emerging Disease Vaccine Development
We continue to make advancements and other animals with divided hooves. FMD is
Facility in College Station, Texas.
not a public health or food safety threat; however,
with Foot-and-Mouth Disease and aim to
an outbreak would have severe economic impact.
develop a vaccine that can help protect
• Provide our innovative vaccines to • Secured a contract to provide rabies pigs against African Swine Fever. African Swine Fever (ASF) is a highly contagious,
all relevant markets via tenders or vaccine to the World Organization for Animal infectious animal disease. As a viral disease
To further our commitment to combat disease
other go-to-market pathways Health (WOAH formerly the OIE) Rabies impacting only pigs and not people, it is not a public
Vaccine Bank. Represent on the OIE United that affect animals and people, we were
health threat or a food safety concern. However,
Against Rabies Committee to develop appointed by the OIE as one of the two outbreaks of ASF have an enormous negative
implementation strategies for the OIE Zero
approved vaccine suppliers to the Rabies impact on producers’ livelihoods and food supply.
By 30 Program to combat human rabies.
Vaccine Bank for four years. The bank was
Rabies is the oldest disease known to affect
created to provide governments and non-
both animals and humans and yet is still
governmental organizations, particularly
responsible for the death of an estimated
in development countries, with a reliable 59,000 people globally each year.1
supply of quality vaccines at an acceptable
1 World Organization for Animal Health.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet 33
Developing our COVID-19 Vaccine
Given the concerns about SARS-CoV-2 in zoo +26,000
animals, Zoetis developed a vaccine that could
be used in animals and since the beginning
of 2021 has donated over 26,000 doses
COVID-19 vaccine
of our COVID-19 vaccine to over 240 zoos,
doses donated
conservatories, sanctuaries, and other animal
organizations located in over a dozen countries
including Canada, Chile, and the United States.
This use was authorized on a case-by-case
+240
basis by the U.S. Department of Agriculture,
appropriate state veterinarians and individual
countries’ regulatory authorities. Based on
information received from zoo veterinarians, we zoos, conservatories,
expect that our single experimental COVID-19
sanctuaries and other
vaccine formulation will be effective in helping
animal organizations
to protect the health and well-being of more
than 300 mammalian species—what we
believe is an unprecedented success story.
+12
countries
+300
mammalian species
Introduction Communities Animals Planet 34
To protect the health of animals and humans, practices that promote responsible use of
Antibiotic Stewardship
we emphasize responsible use of antibiotics antibiotics, raise healthier more productive
in animals and collaborate with global livestock and improve animal welfare.
stakeholders to foster responsible use and
We are also the only stand-alone animal
veterinary involvement when antibiotics are
ASPIRATION health company to participate in the AMR
used. To demonstrate this commitment, we:
Cross-Industry Expert Working Group of the
Promote a preventive approach
• Removed growth promotion use of medically Business Council for the United Nations. We
to animal health with positive
important antibiotics in feed in the U.S. collaborate with human health, agriculture,
implications on human health in 2017 and in remaining markets in 2020 animal husbandry, veterinary services, the
financial sector and other industries involved
• Continue to conduct robust
in anti-microbial stewardship and solutions
antimicrobial resistance surveillance,
to contribute input to United Nations
a program we started in 1993
leadership on AMR efforts in coordination
• Contribute to research through industry
with the World Health Organization, Food
TARGET 2021 PROGRESS
stakeholder groups and with universities
and Agricultural Organization and World
• Promote responsible use of antibiotics • Continued to collaborate with global and governmental agencies
Organization for Animal Health (OIE).
through technical education, introducing stakeholders, including the International
We continue to channel internal and external
antibiotic alternatives, and developing Consortium for Antibiotic Stewardship in
In August 2021, Zoetis participated in an
diagnostic and digital tools Agriculture and the AMR (antimicrobial innovation toward developing products that
AMR Stewardship Webinar conducted by
resistance) Cross-Industry Expert could help reduce the need for antibiotics –
the Indonesian Ministry of Agriculture. Our
Working Group of the Business
including the recent U.S. approval of a
Council for the United Nations. technical expert presented educational
vaccine to help prevent bovine respiratory
material related to responsible antibiotic
• Conducted responsible use educational disease caused by M. bovis – and we
use in treating chronic respiratory
programs in Latin America and Southeast Asia.
continue to explore alternatives to antibiotics
disease in poultry. The program was
and potential partnerships with companies
attended by approximately 600 senior
with novel anti-infective approaches.
officials, academics, and local livestock
• Innovate around anti-microbial resistance
Through the International Consortium stakeholder community members including
to reduce the dependency on antibiotic • Launched vaccines to protect against
classes shared with human health bacterial diseases in poultry and continued for Antibiotic Stewardship in Agriculture veterinarians and poultry producers.
active research on alternatives to antibiotics. (ICASA), we are actively advancing Zoetis continues to support organizations
research to understand disease drivers in Latin America, for example Alianca
• Received U.S. approval for a vaccine
so that we can reduce the need to use in Brazil, that provide educational
to help prevent bovine respiratory
disease caused by M. bovis. antibiotics. The collective investment in content and training to veterinarians
research yields practical solutions, such on responsible use of antibiotics.
as new technologies and management
Introduction Communities Animals Planet 35
HealthforAnimals • 657,000 veterinary professionals
Access to Veterinary Care in Emerging Markets
indirectly trained
As a member of the global trade association,
• $6.7 million allocated in veterinary
HealthforAnimals, Zoetis is working with
scholarships, exceeding $5 million goal
peers to achieve the organization’s Roadmap
ASPIRATION
Read more about this work
to Reducing the Need for Antibiotics, a
in the Roadmap to Reducing
strategy for addressing AMR and improving Grow access to vet care in
the Need for Antibiotics 2021
responsible use of antibiotics. The strategy
emerging markets
Progress Report here.
includes 25 commitments for the sector
to undertake by 2025, and as of 2021,
For a more detailed discussion
some are well ahead of schedule, with:
about our antibiotic stewardship
efforts, including our partnerships,
• 49 out of 100 vaccines delivered
see pages 36-37 of our 2020
(22 against bacterial diseases)
Sustainability Report.
• 17 out of 20 diagnostic tests delivered TARGET 2021 PROGRESS
Through our A.L.P.H.A. initiative with
focus in Africa, by 2025 we will: 25.5%
• Trained 25,500 farmers, veterinarians,
• Train 100,000 farmers, veterinary professionals
para-veterinarians, distributors and lab
and lab technicians
personnel over 1,063 training days.
• Increase women trainees to 50% of trainees 60%
• 30% of trainees are women.
• Treat 10 million cows with positive 48%
implications on smallholder livelihoods,
food security and the environment • Treated 4.8 million cows.1
• Treat 200 million chickens with positive 61%
implications on smallholder livelihoods,
• Treated 121.6 million chickens.2
food security and the environment
1 A ssumption used that every cow receives at least 2 doses (treatment and prevention).
2 In 2021, we revised our assumptions from every bird receiving at least 3 doses to 5 doses (treatment and prevention) due to
the higher rate of adoption of broader vaccinations. We recalculated 2020 data to reflect this change and it is reflected in the
reported number.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet 36
In line with our purpose to nurture the Veterinary Medicines new labs were opened in collaboration with to stakeholders. Disease prevention
world and humankind by advancing care for local strategic partners. By the end of 2021, through vaccination is at the forefront
and Services
animals, we focus on supporting customers we opened a total of 16 labs to serve farming of training topics. Since the onset of the
in underserved rural communities working communities, which included conducting COVID-19 pandemic, there has been a
We are focused on providing veterinarians
to predict, prevent, detect and treat illness intensive training for laboratory staff and shift toward online training delivery due
and farmers throughout Sub-Saharan Africa
in animals and to address unmet medical vets on diagnostic testing and sampling, with to limitations on face-to-face interactions.
with tools to help them raise healthier and
needs. Through this, we also support a shift logistics lines developed in collaboration with Participation declined among females
more productive animals – contributing to
from disease treatment to prevention, thus farming associations to support farmers. and this decrease reflects lower digital
both a sustainable food supply and their
reducing use of antimicrobials in livestock. readiness and connectivity availability
livelihood. Of our products, 62 have received
In addition, we expanded the development
for women farmers, which is a key point
full regulatory approval for commercialization
Our African Livestock Productivity and Health and roll-out of a digital app called ‘Lab
of focus for improvement in 2022.
and an additional 120 are pending approval,
Advancement (A.L.P.H.A.) initiative, co-funded Cards.’ This successful ‘lab-in-a-pocket’
which will increase the availability of quality
with the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, concept was designed to help improve
products in Uganda, Nigeria, Ethiopia and
helps to improve livestock health and lab sample management and results
Tanzania. Our livestock portfolio includes
positively impact farmers’ livelihoods in Sub- communication. An estimated 20,000
products for swine, poultry and ruminants,
Saharan Africa. The initiative began in 2017 chicken flocks and 20,000 cows were
including important vaccines for disease
in Uganda, Nigeria, and Ethiopia, and later tested to date in an effort to improve applied
prevention. Pooled vaccination projects,
expanded into Tanzania. The initiative strives treatment and reduce antibiotic usage.
where a team of veterinary professionals
for gender equality in animal health training
Training and Education
vaccinate animals at small scale farms, have
for women and it anchors on three pillars:
also been launched in all four countries
• Veterinary medicines and services to increase access to quality vaccines Training and education are important in
Sub-Sahara Africa to help empower local
applied in a correct and efficient manner.
• Veterinary laboratory networks
communities to improve livestock health
The number of doses of treatment and
• Training and education and welfare and to ensure that veterinary
prevention products supplied to the markets
medicines are effective through correct
In 2021, we started transitioning our grant have increased 35x in 2021 compared
storage and administration to animals. To
co-funded A.L.P.H.A. initiative activities to 2016, which will have a considerable
date, 25,500 individuals, including farmers,
throughout the broader Sub-Saharan Africa impact on livestock health in the region.
veterinarians and para-veterinarians,
region to our commercial operations. Zoetis is
Veterinary Laboratory
distributors, and lab personnel have been
committed to sustain and grow its presence
Networks trained through 1,063 training days. In 2021
in the region by focusing on distribution
alone, over 12,300 people were trained
improvement and geographical coverage,
Farmers in Sub-Saharan Africa face negative in 423 training days, with an estimated
technical support, diagnostic support, digital
economic impact due to inappropriate extended reach of some 615,000 people
capabilities, training and education and
disease treatments and an increased risk of through a Train-the-Trainer approach.1
support of private-public partnerships.
antimicrobial resistance due to the lack of Training courses have been tailored to
diagnostic services, including veterinary input address training gaps identified by regional
Photo courtesty of the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation
and correct disease diagnosis. In 2021, five surveys to ensure maximal relevance
1 Assumption used that every trained person trains 50 other people.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet 37
Planet
The Drive to
Protect Our
Planet
We steward resources responsibly
and minimize our impact, as we
deliver products and services that
advance the health of animals.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet 38
Our Carbon Footprint
ASPIRATION
Minimize our carbon footprint
TARGET 2021 PROGRESS
• Become carbon neutral in our own • Developed a hierarchical approach to
operations by 2030 achieving carbon neutrality in our operations
by focusing on energy efficiency and
minimizing energy load, capital project
investments, and renewable energy sourcing.
• In the first half of 2022, we will initiate energy
The Drive
audits at our top 10 energy-consuming sites
that account for 90% of our energy footprint.
• Moving forward, 2021 will serve as
to Protect our baseline and we will report our
progress towards this target annually.
Our Planet
• Source 100% renewable energy by 2030 • 13.5% renewable electricity sourced
to date (RE100 commitment).
• 6.1% renewable energy sourced to date.
• Reduce energy intensity in manufacturing • Reduced energy intensity in
and R&D by 5% by 20251 manufacturing and R&D by 14%.
• Rethink business travel and work-from- • Began evaluating policies and practices that
home policies to reduce transportation- will support a reduction of business travel and
related emissions by 25% colleague commuting emissions and plan to
report on actionable steps in next year’s report.
1 Based on 2019 baseline. Energy intensity is gigajoules per $1 million in revenue
Introduction Communities Animals Planet 39
In 2022, we announced a refresh to our Carbon Reduction Hierarchy
Driven to Care sustainability aspirations for
mitigating the company’s climate impact.
We set a new goal to be carbon neutral in
our own operations by 2030. The target Bridge remaining emissions with Purchase of
focuses on our Scope 1 and 2 emissions the purchase of carbon offsets Carbon
from our manufacturing and R&D operations,
Offsets
office locations and fleet vehicles. We also
accelerated our commitment to source
100% renewable energy in our operations
Purchase of
by 20 years – with a goal of achieving
Source 100% renewable electricity Renewable
our RE100 commitment by 2030.
in all of our operations
Electricity
To achieve our carbon neutrality commitment,
we will take a hierarchical approach to reduce
emissions. Our first focus area is to reduce
energy use at our sites: optimizing how we
operate our utility systems and manufacturing Electrify
equipment to minimize energy waste, as Convert our fleet over to electric vehicles Zoetis
well as investing in sustainable equipment Fleet
and design to embed energy efficiency and
decarbonization into our capital projects.
Underpinning this drive to reducing emissions,
we will conduct energy audits at the ten sites Optimizing use of utility systems
to minimize energy waste
that account for 90% of our energy footprint. Reduce
In parallel, we will develop a strategy to Design and embed energy efficiency and Emissions
electrify our fleet of vehicles and expand
decarbonization into capital projects
our sourcing of renewable electricity.
Graphic is for illustrative purposes and not to scale.
10% 5.5%
reduction in Scope 1 emissions reduction in absolute Scope 2
intensity of our manufacturing emissions from 20201
and R&D operations from 2020
1 Based on location-based emissions.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet 40
Greenhouse Gas Emissions (metric tons CO2e) Energy Use Vehicle Fleet
Zoetis has long been committed to reducing Zoetis’ fleet of approximately 3,500
2021 2020 2019
our energy needs and this year we exceeded vehicles across 40 countries account for
our target of reducing the energy intensity 7% of our total Scope 1 and 2 emissions,
Scope 1 emissions — total1,2 98,085 76,057 72,426
of our manufacturing and R&D operations by and thus, it is a focus of our strategy to
5% by 2025. Driven by key energy efficiency achieve carbon neutrality. In 2021, electric
Manufacturing, R&D and offices 78,064 76,057 72,426
projects and top line revenue growth, in vehicles represented 0.5% of our total
2021, we achieved a 14% reduction in energy fleet and hybrids accounted for 6.3%. As
Fleet 20,021 Not available Not available
intensity from our 2019 baseline. We know a part of our carbon transition plan, we
reducing our energy needs is critical for are actively evaluating opportunities to
Scope 2 emissions – market-based3 185,097 Not available Not available
achieving our carbon neutrality commitment increase the use of electric, hybrid and
and we plan to continue to invest in updated more fuel-efficient vehicles, while factoring
Scope 2 emissions – location-based4 226,951 240,083 234,580 technology to be more energy efficient. For in our field colleagues’ needs with battery
example, a project to retrofit a spray dryer ranges and charging infrastructure.
Scope 1 and 2 emissions5 283,182 316,140 307,006 at our Chicago Heights, Ill., manufacturing
In addition to shifting to electric and
site, resulting in a 10% reduction in energy
Scope 1 and 2 emissions hybrid vehicles, where available, we aim
37 47 49 consumption in 2021. At our global R&D
intensity (per $1MM revenue) to switch to more sustainable fuels and
headquarters in Kalamazoo, Mich., we delivered
use technology solutions to help optimize
a 2% reduction in total energy consumption
1 I n 2021, Zoetis added fleet vehicles to our Scope 1 footprint. Adding fleet emissions to the Scope 1 footprint resulted in an
routes. For example, in 2021, our Brazil
during 2021 through the implementation of
additional 20,021 metric tons CO2e being added to the company’s 2021 Scope 1 emissions. Data was not retrospectively
operations launched Sustainable Route,
energy efficient projects in utilities and lighting.
added for previous years.
an effort to encourage our Brazilian field
2 G HG emissions from Zoetis owned and leased offices where data was available (accounting for 70% of our owned and leased
force of more than 500 colleagues to use
office space) was added to our carbon footprint in 2021. Zoetis offices account for less than 0.5% of the 2021 emissions
ethanol when fueling fleet vehicles. In
footprint. Data was retrospectively added for 2019 and 2020. In addition, Zoetis operates 19 reference laboratories that
Brazil, ethanol is sourced from renewable
are located throughout the U.S. Emissions from these labs, which we expect to be de minimis, are not included in our
sources, such as sugarcane, which has a
emissions footprint.
smaller carbon footprint than gasoline. As
3 In 2021, we commenced using market-based emissions factors for purchased electricity.
of January 2022, about 80% of our Brazilian
4 S team was added to our Scope 2 emissions and retrospectively applied to 2019 and 2020. Steam accounted for 10% of our
field force has switched to ethanol.
Scope 2 emissions in 2021.
5 F or the purposes of reporting total emissions, 2021 combines Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 emissions for 2021. For
prior years, we have combined Scope 1 with location-based Scope 2 emissions. Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 emissons
are the basis of our carbon neutrality commitment and we will be using this to measure our performance.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet 41
Renewable Energy because it represents approximately RE100 is a global Reducing Travel-Related
75% of our global electricity consumption.
initiative bringing Emissions
As part of our aspiration to achieve carbon
Currently nine of our 28 manufacturing together the world’s
neutrality, we accelerated our commitment
We recognize our responsibility to reduce
sites, along with three commercial
to RE100 by 20 years, with a new target of most influential
our impact beyond our operational emissions.
operations sites in Norway, operate
achieving 100% renewable energy sourcing
businesses with Therefore, we set an aspiration to rethink
on 100% renewable energy, with our
by 2030. We developed a formal approach to
our business travel and work-from-home
San Diego, Calif. diagnostic site recently commitments to source
procuring renewable energy through power
policies to reduce our transportation-related
added to the list. Additionally, our offices in
purchase agreements, including a new 15- 100% renewable
emissions. While our global travel volume
Zaventem, Belgium, and Dublin, Ireland –
year virtual power purchase agreement with
electricity and shift is still 50% below 2019 levels, as we look
the company’s largest offices outside of
Vesper Energy, which will generate more than
ahead, we will identify opportunities to
the U.S. – are now being powered by 100% away from non-
40 megawatts of renewable energy to power
maintain reduced environmental impacts
renewable electricity. As a result of these
approximately 33% of Zoetis’ North American renewable energy.
of travel. We will do this by understanding
investments, 13.5% of our total electricity
operations’ projected energy needs. Our
the largest contributors of business travel
consumed is from renewable electricity.
current efforts are focused in North America
carbon emissions within our organization
and identifying actionable reduction
opportunities, including through policy
Energy (gigajoule)
changes, provider selection and trip
reductions. We also aim to increase
2021 2020 2019 colleagues’ awareness to empower them
13.5%
to make more sustainable travel decisions.
Energy1,2 3,365,305 3,301,567 3,181,551
Throughout 2021, we continued to support
renewable electricity
colleagues based on their individual role,
Energy intensity (per $1MM revenue) 437 493 507
organizational and team needs. When
possible, in line with local health restrictions,
Renewable energy 205,566 130,435 123,176
we offered colleagues the opportunity to
work from home on a full-time or hybrid
Renewable energy (%) 6.1 3.9 3.9
basis. As the pandemic subsides and
we transition back to the office, we are
Renewable electricity (%) 13.5 8.8 8.6
evaluating policies that will allow our
colleagues to maintain the flexibility provided
1 E nergy usage from Zoetis owned and leased offices where data was available (accounting for 70% of our owned and leased
by working from home, while also allowing us
office space) was added to our energy footprint in 2021. Zoetis offices account for less than 0.5% of the 2021 energy footprint.
to reduce transportation-related emissions.
Data was retrospectively added for 2019 and 2020. In addition, Zoetis operates 19 reference laboratories that are located
throughout the U.S. Energy usage from these labs, which we expect to be de minimis, are not included in our energy footprint.
2 S team was added to our energy metrics and retrospectively applied to 2019 and 2020. Steam accounted for 7.8% of our energy
use in 2021.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet 42
Reducing our During 2021, we strengthened our global Zoetis provided 55 tonnes of waste solvent
processes and internal controls for waste to the neighboring cement manufacturer
12%
management to enable streamlined for use an ‘alternative fuel’ in the cement
Environmental
traceability of all our waste streams. In manufacture process. In addition, in 2021,
addition, we improved our onsite waste we launched an ambitious program of
reduction in routine
Footprint
management processes and increased our hazardous waste reduction projects at
operational non-hazardous
capabilities to segregate and recycle waste. three of our top ten waste generating sites.
waste compared to 2020
This has allowed us to identify innovative This program has a goal of reducing our
opportunities to repurpose our waste. hazardous waste footprint through improved
As an animal health company, being
For example, our manufacturing site in management of aqueous waste streams.
good stewards of the environment is
Campinas, Brazil partnered with a nearby
important to us and our customers. While
For additional information about
cement manufacturer to enable ‘Co Process’
manufacturing products can be water
water and waste management
7%
recycling of a Zoetis waste solvent stream.
and resource intensive, we are heavily
efforts, see pages 44-45 of our
focused on making our operations more
2020 Sustainability Report.
water efficient, identifying opportunities
increase in non-hazardous
to recycle and repurpose our wastewater,
waste recycling in 2021
reduce the amount of waste that we produce
and responsibly manage our waste.
To reduce our water intake, we have
invested in improved technology, such as
closed loop cooling systems. We identified
Water (cubic meters) 43%
opportunities to reduce and reuse water
in our processes and implement additional
2021 2020 2019
efficiency measures. We integrated lean
of non-hazardous waste was
manufacturing principles and tools to help
recycled, reused or incinerated
Water intake 3,288,114 2,907,422 3,070,960
facilities identify areas for water conservation.
for energy recovery in 2021
This has allowed us to reduce our water intake
Water discharge 2,476,575 2,647,329 2,681,002
intensity by 2% in 2021. While water use
increased by approximately 380,000 cubic
Water recycled 58,047 50,000 Not available
meters, we experienced significant growth
in water intensive manufacturing operations
Water intake intensity
427 435 491
in our biologics and fermentation operations.
(per $1MM revenue)
We also increased our water recycling efforts,
Water discharge intensity
including the use of reject water from purified
322 397 373
(per $1MM revenue)
water loops as feedwater for boilers.
Introduction Communities Animals Planet 43
Non-Hazardous Waste (kilograms)
Location Sustainability Teams
2021 2020 2019
Non-hazardous waste – total1 11,410,917 12,922,114 10,390,293 ASPIRATION
Improve the sustainability in our locations
Landfilled 4,919,540 Not available Not available
Incinerated 474,821 Not available Not available
TARGET 2021 PROGRESS
Recycled/reused/energy recovery 6,016,556 5,630,506 3,919,978
• Stand-up “Location Sustainability” • Continued to evaluate the opportunity to
teams in major sites launch colleague working groups across our
Non-hazardous waste intensity
1,481 1,928 1,707 sites to advance our sustainability targets.
(per $1MM revenue)
In 2021, we strengthened engagement in
Non-hazardous waste recycled sustainability with our global colleague
781 840 637
intensity (per $1MM revenue) community through a Driven to Care
learning series and Yammer Community,
an internal communications group
1 I n 2021, Zoetis commenced a program of improved waste segregation and management. This resulted in us removing
where colleagues shared how they were
1,283,000 kilograms of construction and demolition debris from our routine operation waste in 2021.
engaging in sustainability efforts. We
also established an Energy Intensity Core
team, a cross-functional group across
Hazardous Waste (kilograms)
manufacturing and R&D operations focused
on identifying opportunities to reduce
our energy use and embed sustainability
2021 2020 2019
into our capital investment processes.
Hazardous waste – total 13,610,759 9,455,723 12,594,248
Landfill 1,181,817 Not available Not available
Incinerated 2,502,738 Not available Not available
Recycled 9,926,202 2,665,399 1,973,233
Hazardous waste intensity
1,745 1,375 2,012
(per $1MM revenue)
Hazardous waste recycled
1,272 398 315
intensity (per $1MM revenue)
Introduction Communities Animals Planet 44
At Zoetis, we are actively working to developed with oversight by the Packaging
Rethink our Packaging
reduce our environmental footprint, Council and in partnership with business
as we know this is important to our functions that will be most impacted,
customers, our communities and our planet. including commercial, manufacturing and
ASPIRATION By responsibly stewarding resources, R&D. The policy will also be informed by
we aim to reduce the impact our product a supplier survey launched in 2021 to
Rethink our packaging to reduce
packaging has on our customers’ understand the sustainability programs
its environmental footprint businesses and our planet at large. and capabilities of our top 20 vendors.
To help support and guide our efforts, In addition, we are focusing on building
we formed a Packaging Council, a cross- our internal knowledge base and
TARGET 2021 PROGRESS functional team comprising manufacturing capabilities. We onboarded a packaging
operations, R&D, sustainability and sustainability engineer and invested in
• Integrate sustainability considerations • Began developing internal processes
marketing colleagues who review packaging life cycle assessment tools to help us
into all new packaging designs and policies to ensure new product
packaging designs take into account proposals to evaluate customer experience, analyze and evaluate the environmental
environmental considerations. sustainability, manufacturability, value and impact of our packaging options.
product quality. The Packaging Council
• Conducted a supplier survey to gather data
is tasked with developing tools to align
on the sustainability packaging capabilities
of our top packaging vendors. The feedback with industry standards for determining
Joined the Sustainable
received from the survey informed our environmental impacts of packaging options,
enterprise-wide packaging guidance policy.
establishing programs and policies, and Packaging Coalition
setting long-term goals. The Packaging
Council is supported by an executive In 2021, Zoetis joined the Sustainable Packaging
Coalition, a membership-based collaborative that
sponsorship team, who provides guidance on
uses the power of industry to make packaging
long-term initiatives and feedback from both
more sustainable. As we take critical steps to
a manufacturing and customer perspective.
improve the packaging systems that will benefit
our customers and our environment, this coalition
In 2022, we plan to establish an enterprise-
will help us take actionable steps by lending a
wide packaging guidance policy that
collective, expert voice on sustainable packaging.
will ensure the packaging of every new
product takes environmental considerations
into account and that the packaging of
existing on-market products is reviewed
for environmental impact. This will include
assessing our material guidance policy,
competitive and regulatory landscapes,
and vendor capabilities. The policy is being
Introduction Communities Animals Planet 45
In Canada, we shifted to temperature-controlled In the E.U., we launched Solensia and In New Zealand, we
Packaging Sustainability
trucks, resulting in more than 90% of shipments Librela, our new monoclonal antibodies focused on reducing
Improvement being made without styrofoam coolers. We also implemented to alleviate pain associated with osteoarthritis packaging waste from the
programs to collect unused livestock medications and in cats and dogs, in cardboard packaging. biggest product we sell
Reimaging packaging means decreasing
packaging in partnership with Health Products Stewardship in that market – Teatseal/
our environmental footprint and increasing
Association, a not-for-profit organization that helps support Orbeseal, a sealant that
customer satisfaction. In 2021, we took
the safe and effective collection of unused health products prevents cows from getting
meaningful steps across the globe – from
to improve pet medication packaging collection. mastitis without the use of
replacing virgin materials with recycled-
antibiotics. To reduce the
content materials to creating programs
waste that goes into landfills,
to divert packaging from landfills.
we offer a take-back program
for all Zoetis-supplied
components, except for the
compostable teatwipes.
In 2021, the program
resulted in the recycling
of approximately 30%, or
1.6 million, of the Teatseal/
Orbeseal tubes used.
Some of the tubes were
recycled into fence posts,
which are used on farms.
In the U.S., we introduced new
sustainable packaging for Clavamox
Chewable. Customer feedback led to a new
design that considered reducing waste of
cardboard: 30% of customers were not using
all of the dispensing envelopes used in legacy
packaging. The new “roll out” design allows for
easier access to treatment, more shelf space In Australia, we replaced plastic sleeves
and a reduction in cardboard and carbon made from virgin materials with ones made
emissions. In addition, dispensing envelopes from 100% post-consumer recycled plastic for
were upgraded to a 100% recyclable film. Dectomax-V, our injectable parasitic used for cattle.
To learn more about how we nurture the
world and humankind by advancing care
for animals, visit zoetis.com/sustainability
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This 2021 Sustainability Progress Update and 2021 ESG are made. Zoetis expressly disclaims any obligation to
and SASB Index include forward-looking statements update or revise any forward-looking statement in this
about, among other things, our progress toward 2021 Sustainability Progress Update and 2021 ESG and
our Driven to Care aspirations; our sustainability, SASB Index, whether as a result of new information,
energy and climate goals, targets and plans; our future events or otherwise. A further list and
business plans or prospects; future operating or description of risks, uncertainties and other matters
financial performance; and other future events. These can be found in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for ZOETIS GLOBAL HEADQUARTERS
statements are not guarantees of future performance the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021, including 10 Sylvan Way
or actions. Forward-looking statements are subject in the sections thereof captioned “Forward-Looking Parsippany, NJ 07054
to risks and uncertainties. If one or more of these Statements and Factors That May Affect Future 973-822-7200
risks or uncertainties materializes, or if management’s Results” and “Item 1A. Risk Factors,” in our Quarterly sustainability@zoetis.com
underlying assumptions prove to be incorrect, actual Reports on Form 10-Q and in our Current Reports on zoetis.com
results may differ materially from those contemplated Form 8-K. These filings and subsequent filings are
by a forward-looking statement. Forward-looking available online at www.sec.gov, www.zoetis.com, or All brands are the property of their respective owners.
statements speak only as of the date on which they on request from Zoetis. © 2022 Zoetis Services LLC. All rights reserved.
