Our journey
toward a
better world
Sustainability Report 2020
Contents
Introduction 02
A Letter from our CEO 04
About this Report 06
Zoetis by the Numbers 08
Driven to Care 10
Sustainability Program Governance 14
Sustainability Strategy Informed by Stakeholders 15
Communities 16
Care and Collaboration
Caring for our Colleagues 17
Our journey toward a
Caring for our Communities 27
better world for animals, Animals 32
Innovation in Animal Health
people and the planet. Innovation 33
Combat Diseases 34
Antibiotic Stewardship 36
Access to Veterinary Care in Emerging Markets 38
With the belief that healthier animals build a healthier future for
Planet 40
all, we designed our sustainability efforts across three key areas:
The Drive to Protect Our Planet
Environmental Metrics 47
Communities Animals Planet
Care and Innovation in The Drive to
Collaboration Animal Health Protect Our Planet
Read more: Read more:
zoetis.com/sustainability Environmental, Social and Governance Appendix
2 3
Zoetis Sustainability Report 2020
INTRODUCTION
COMMUNITIES
ANIMALS
PLANET
5
INTRODUCTION
COMMUNITIES
ANIMALS
PLANET
Introduction
A Letter from our CEO Introducing the
Zoetis Foundation
Championing a healthier,
We also continue to support our customers Building on our purpose and in keeping with our
in their quest to prevent disease and sustainability aspirations, Zoetis is proud to commit
reduce the need to use antibiotics. $35 million over five years through the newly
more sustainable future
And for the world’s veterinarians and established Zoetis Foundation. The Zoetis Foundation
livestock farmers, we continually
will advance opportunities for veterinarians and farmers.
discover and develop new products and
Initially, the Foundation will support scholarships and
digital tools that allow them to provide
diversity initiatives to help drive an inclusive veterinary
We are taking bold action to build a healthier future for uninterrupted care for herds, flocks,
community in the U.S.
schools, and cats and dogs, too.
animals, people and the planet we call home.
In 2022, the Foundation’s work will expand to support veterinary
Planet: The Drive to debt relief, additional diversity and inclusion programming and
Protect Our Planet mental wellness for farmers and veterinarians in the U.S., as well as
support farmer and veterinary livelihoods in Africa, Australia, Brazil,
We have a responsibility to address
China and Europe.
We hired a head of sustainability and We faced unforgettable, extraordinary climate change, including helping meet
In 2020, our community investments included:
issued our first ever Environmental, Social moments in 2020, including those the targets set by the Paris Agreement.
and Governance (ESG) Review. In March that reinforced our commitment to To that end, we have joined RE100
2021, we introduced Driven to Care, our inclusion, equity and diversity. In the and committed to sourcing 100% $6M+
longer-term initiative that aligns with the U.S. in particular, the call for racial renewable energy by 2050, set additional
United Nations’ Sustainable Development equity emerged as an urgent need. In targets to reduce our greenhouse
Goals and to which we’ll hold ourselves response, we increased diversity on gas emissions, and will continue to invested to support animals and people who
accountable. In this report, I invite you our Board of Directors and executive improve our product packaging. care for them
to see the progress we have made. leadership team and set in motion a
While our sustainability strategy is
plan to influence diversity, equity and 9.6%
Communities: Care ambitious, we wholeheartedly embrace
inclusion across our organization –
and Collaboration the journey and look forward to sharing
through education and new Colleague
our progress along the way. We’ve
Our colleagues make the difference in Resource Groups – and the industry by
made incredible strides so far thanks of all community investments supported COVID-19 relief
The COVID-19 pandemic everything we do, and we continually partnering with veterinary organizations.
to our dedicated colleagues who are
reaffirmed our purpose work to ensure Zoetis is a place where
Animals: Innovation instrumental in achieving our goals, $1.83M+
as Zoetis: to nurture the they feel safe, valued and cared for.
in Animal Health and there is much more to come.
During the pandemic, our priority was
world and humankind by
the health and safety of our colleagues. I Healthier animals build a healthier future. Thank you for your
advancing care for animals. donated to care for animals impacted by disaster
am so proud of the way they went above This is why we bring forward innovative interest in Zoetis!
and beyond to safely and effectively solutions that address sustainability
Our dependence on animals for nutrition,
$934,000+
connect and collaborate with each other challenges facing animals and people,
companionship and comfort – and
and our customers, as well as keep our including emerging infectious diseases
the essential role of veterinarians and
essential business operations going. like COVID-19. Our scientists quickly
farmers in ensuring the health and
developed an experimental vaccine to donated to veterinary scholarships
productivity of animals in uncertain Our colleagues also rallied around
be at the ready should COVID impact
times – is only amplified in times of our customers who compassionately
our pets, livestock or other animals. 400+
crisis. We also realized we can work care for the animals we depend on.
Fortunately, COVID has not been an
differently and as a result take better Driven by local efforts, we supported
issue for our beloved dogs and cats,
care of the earth and people around us. veterinarians, expanded access to
or livestock, but we have helped
animal care and provided disaster relief. veterinary students supported by our scholarships
The events of the past year have veterinarians at the San Diego Zoo
In 2020, we invested over $6 million
deepened our commitment to champion globally to support animals and the protect the health of their gorillas and are Kristin Peck $974,000+
a healthier, more sustainable future. working to meet the needs of other zoos.
people who care for them, with nearly
CEO, Zoetis
In 2020, we formalized and mobilized
10% of all giving focused on immediate
our sustainability strategy.
and long-term COVID-19 relief. invested in veterinary training initiatives
4
Zoetis Sustainability Report 2020
INTRODUCTION
COMMUNITIES
ANIMALS
PLANET
Introduction Introduction
6
Zoetis
COMMUNITIES
About this Report About Zoetis
At Zoetis, we are a global team committed Our Purpose Our Core Beliefs
to nurturing the world and humankind by
Championing a healthier, Our purpose – to nurture the world and Our Core Beliefs are part of the promise
advancing care for animals. For nearly
humankind by advancing care for animals we make to our customers, investors
70 years, Zoetis has supported those
– inspires how we are reimagining animal and partners, and to each other as
more sustainable who raise and care for animals – from health. We focus on innovations across members of One Zoetis team.
clinics and homes to farms and ranches.
the continuum of care for animals – from
• Our Colleagues Make The Difference
We care deeply about developing ways prediction and prevention to detection and
future for all
to ensure animals are in the best health treatment of disease – as well as in digital • Always Do The Right Thing
possible, and we apply our Research & and data analytics that can accelerate
• Customer Obsessed
Development (R&D), manufacturing and the achievement of those goals. We also
technical expertise to create new and continue developing our highly engaged • Run It Like You Own It
better medicines, vaccines, diagnostics colleagues who help us champion a
Building on our purpose to nurture the world and • We Are One Zoetis
and technologies that can address the healthier, more sustainable future.
humankind by advancing care for animals, one of our animal health and business challenges
our customers face every day.
strategic business priorities is to champion a healthier,
We believe the bond between people
more sustainable future for all.
and animals is special and makes
the world a better place. Working
together to advance care for animals,
we are building a more sustainable
future that benefits our colleagues,
customers, communities and planet.
Our name, Zoetis (zō-EH-tis), has its
root in zo, familiar in words such as zoo
and zoology and derived from zoetic,
meaning “pertaining to life.” It signals
our company’s dedication to supporting
the world’s veterinarians, livestock
farmers and pet owners who raise and
care for the animals we depend on.
In developing our 2020 Sustainability Report, we considered the Our TCFD disclosure can be viewed in our 2019 ESG Review
disclosure frameworks and guidance of leading sustainability and we plan to enhance our climate-related disclosure later
organizations, such as the Sustainability Accounting Standards in 2021. We also intend to participate in CDP (formerly Carbon
Board’s (SASB) Health Care – Biotechnology & Pharmaceuticals Disclosure Project), a global environmental disclosure system,
industry standards, the Task Force on Climate-related through the CDP climate change survey. The content in this
Financial Disclosures (TCFD) recommendations, and the report was informed by the feedback that we have received
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs). as part of our environmental, social and governance (ESG)
materiality assessment, which is discussed in more detail below.
The discussion and data points in this report cover the calendar
year 2020, unless otherwise noted. Some case studies and
programs include information from 2021.
7
Sustainability Report 2020
INTRODUCTION
COMMUNITIES
ANIMALS
PLANET
Introduction IInnttrroodduuccttiioonn
Zoetis by the Numbers
8 11,300 Revenue by
Revenue by
Product
Species
Category
8 species supported by Zoetis— cattle total number of colleagues
(beef and dairy), swine, poultry,
sheep, fish, dogs, cats and horses
1,250
7
approximate number of R&D colleagues Companion Animal – 55% Vaccines – 22%
Cattle – 24% Anti-infectives – 18%
7 core product categories – vaccines,
anti-infectives, parasiticides, Swine – 10% Parasiticides – 18%
3,600
dermatology products, medicated feed
Poultry – 8% Dermatology – 14%
additives, animal health diagnostics,
other pharmaceutical products Fish – 2% Other Pharmaceuticals – 13%
Sheep and other – 1% Medicated Feed Additives – 7%
approximate field force members
100+ (sales representatives and veterinary Animal Health Diagnostics – 5%
technical representatives)
Other Non-Pharmaceuticals – 3%
$6.675B
countries where our products are sold
29
revenue in 2020
global manufacturing sites – all
$463M
dedicated to delivering a reliable
supply of quality products
300
R&D investment (expense) in 2020
approximate number of product lines
8 99
Zoetis SSuussttaaiinnaabbiilliittyy RReeppoorrtt 22002200
11
Sustainability Report 2020
INTRODUCTION
COMMUNITIES
ANIMALS
PLANET
Introduction Introduction
Driven to Care
While Zoetis has always operated with sustainability
in mind, Driven to Care represents the company's first Communities
Care and
sustainability initiative and long-term aspirations.
Collaboration
In 2021, Zoetis launched Driven to Care, the company’s first At the heart of our sustainability strategy is the care and respect
sustainability initiative, which builds on our commitments that is ever present in our actions and decisions — the care of
to customers, partners, the communities we serve and our animals and the people who nurture them, and the respect we
colleagues. Across three pillars – Communities, Animals and have for the human-animal bond that enriches our world. Our Sustainable
Aspirations Metrics Development Goal
Planet – our sustainability strategy outlines our priorities and
Driven to Care is an important milestone on our sustainability
the targets we have set to become an even more sustainable
Support our Contribute 2,500 volunteer days (20,000 hours)
journey. It is our commitment to hold ourselves accountable for
business and to support a healthier future for us all.
communities annually in the communities we serve
the impact of our actions as well as a promise to our stakeholders
Driven to Care is our response to the interconnectedness to proudly work alongside them to nurture animals, humankind
among communities, animals and the planet, in addition and the planet we share. These sustainability aspirations also Support veterinary Provide at least $1 million in scholarships
to the sustainability issues that affect every one of us. provide a roadmap for how we believe Zoetis can help make professionals to veterinary students annually, focusing on
Overcoming the complex challenges we face requires a an impact and drive the achievement of the UN SDGs. underrepresented groups where possible
holistic approach – one that can benefit from the combined
Provide access to professional programs for veterinarians
expertise and passion we and our customers share.
in the countries where we have a presence
Expand veterinary care Expand veterinary care access to reach at least
Our Driven to Care strategic pillars access to underserved 30,000 pet owners in-need annually through
populations
charitable and human-animal bond programs
Communities Animals Planet Provide animal care Care for at least 225,000 animals in-need annually
Care and Innovation in The Drive to in disaster relief through charitable programs and in-kind donations
Collaboration Animal Health Protect Our Planet
Create a sustainable Integrate sustainability into all strategic planning
governance framework and resource allocation processes
Establish an effective approach to external
sustainability disclosures
Support our colleagues Increase representation of women at the director
We support and partner with We use our expertise in We steward resources
and cultivate a safe, level and above to 40% by 2025 across Zoetis
our colleagues, communities animal health to solve responsibly and minimize flexible, diverse and
and the people who care sustainability challenges our impact, as we deliver inclusive workplace Increase representation of people of color at
for animals. We achieve facing animals and people. products and services that all levels in the U.S. to 25% by 2025
more by working together advance the health of animals.
• 5% Black US colleagues by 2025
toward our common goals.
• 6% Latinx US colleagues by 2025
Be a top 100 leader for workplace inclusion in key
focus areas (women, people of color, LGBTQ+)
Commit to diverse slates and interview
panels as we hire for all positions
10
Zoetis
13
Sustainability Report 2020
INTRODUCTION
COMMUNITIES
ANIMALS
PLANET
Introduction Introduction
Animals Planet
Innovation in The Drive to
Animal Health Protect Our Planet
Our Sustainable Our Sustainable
Aspirations Metrics Development Goal Aspirations Metrics Development Goal
Provide products Innovate to create and drive adoption of key Minimize our Source 100% renewable energy by 2050
and services that sustainable animal health solutions carbon footprint
Reduce energy intensity in manufacturing enable productive and
sustainable livestock Equip our customers with innovative products to and R&D by 5% by 20251
farms that preserve support their ambitious environmental, social and
Rethink business travel and work-from-home policies
animal welfare animal welfare goals
to reduce transportation-related emissions by 25%
Promote a preventive Promote responsible use of antibiotics through technical
Rethink our Integrate sustainability considerations
approach to animal education, introducing antibiotic alternatives, and developing
packaging into all new packaging designs
health with positive
diagnostic and digital tools to reduce its
implications on
environmental
human health Innovate around anti-microbial resistance to reduce
footprint
the dependency on antibiotic classes shared with
human health
Improve the Stand-up “Location Sustainability” teams
sustainability in major sites by the end of 2021
Grow access to Through our A.L.P.H.A. initiative with in our locations
veterinary care in focus in Africa, by 2025 we will:
emerging markets
• Train 100,000 farmers, veterinary professionals and
lab technicians
• Increase women trainees to 50% of trainees
• Treat 10 million cows with positive implications on
smallholder livelihoods, food security and the environment
• Treat 200 million chickens with positive implications on
smallholder livelihoods, food security and the environment
Combat diseases that Leverage the Zoetis Center for Transboundary
pose the greatest risk and Emerging Diseases to develop vaccines for
to animals and humans
high-impact emerging diseases globally:
• Invest in R&D on emerging infectious diseases
• Provide our innovative vaccines to all relevant markets
via tenders or other go-to-market pathways
1 Based on 2019 baseline. Energy intensity is gigajoules per $1 million in revenue.
12
Zoetis
INTRODUCTION
COMMUNITIES
ANIMALS
PLANET
Introduction Introduction
Sustainability Program Governance Sustainability Strategy Informed by Stakeholders
Aspirations In the Fall of 2020, we conducted an ESG In conducting the assessment, we their operations, feedback from investors,
materiality assessment to strategically surveyed over 300 individuals from eight customers and other stakeholders on
Create a sustainable governance framework address relevant sustainability topics that stakeholder groups – executive team, thematic sustainability topics, and leading
have the most impact on society and our colleagues, direct customers, retail sustainability reporting frameworks.
business, and to inform our Driven to Care customers, investors, industry groups,
strategy. The results of the assessment community groups and suppliers – and
Integrate sustainability into Establish an effective approach to
also drive our engagement with internal asked that they rank 27 sustainability topics
all strategic planning and external sustainability disclosures
and external stakeholders on sustainability, in order of importance. In determining
resource allocation processes
help us prioritize our sustainability efforts, the topics, we considered those that we
inform our sustainability targets, and are currently working toward, those that
guide our reporting and disclosure. peers have deemed to be important for
Sustainability and ESG issues are it receives regular updates regarding
In 2020, we enhanced our
important priorities for Zoetis. Leadership their respective areas of oversight. In
ESG Materiality Matrix
Policy on Sustainability to include
of Sustainability starts with our Board of 2020, our Board also expanded the
our ongoing commitment to protect
Directors, CEO and senior management, charter of its Compensation Committee
Important Topics Significant Topics Priority Topics
the planet, develop innovative
and cascades across our enterprise. Our to include responsibility for overseeing
we must get right to operate as we need to manage to operate efficiently which are the highest impact toward supporting
Head of Sustainability helps define the ESG talent development, diversity and animal health products, and support a responsible business within the animal health sector our customers and their businesses
colleagues and communities.
agenda and provides daily management inclusion, and employee engagement
and oversight of our global sustainability programs and policies. The Compensation
initiatives and goals. The Head of Committee was renamed the Human
Sustainability provides regular reports to Resources Committee to reflect these
the Zoetis Executive Team. We also have expanded human capital management
cross-functional working groups, led by our responsibilities. For additional information
Head of Sustainability, focused on ensuring about how our Board committees oversee
that we make — and track — continued ESG, see our 2021 Proxy Statement.
progress in our sustainability journey.
Our Board of Directors has determined that
oversight of Zoetis’ overall sustainability
program is most effective at the Board
level. The Board receives regular updates
from our Head of Sustainability, reviews
and provides guidance on sustainability
strategy, and monitors our progress. The
Board also receives regular updates on our
enterprise risk management program.
The Board also exercises its oversight of
ESG issues through its committees and
Sustainable
Communities Animals Planet
governance
14 15
Zoetis Sustainability Report 2020
)ecnatropmI
fo
eergeD(
evitcepsreP
redlohekatS
Zoetis Priorities (Impact on Business) HIGH IMPORTANCE
ECNATROPMI
HGIH
Sustainable Antibiotic Animal Product Quality
Farming Stewardship Welfare and Safety
Food Ethical R&D, Pipeline Security Farmer Behavior and Innovation
Livelihoods
Physician Human Occupational (Veterinary) Health, Safety &
Health Risk
Awareness and Transparency Wellness
Education & Disclosure
Disease
Colleague
Awareness
Human Rights and Treatment Development Access to
Veterinary
Medicines &
Services
Climate Change
Corporate Supply Chain Data Privacy Diversity &
Governance Resiliency & Security Inclusion
Water
Stewardship
Women
Renewable Waste
Philanthropy Empowerment & Packaging
Energy Management
Gender Equity
17
Sustainability Report 2020
INTRODUCTION
COMMUNITIES
ANIMALS
PLANET
Communities Care and Collaboration
Care and Caring for our
Colleagues
Collaboration
Aspirations
We support and partner with our colleagues,
Support our colleagues and cultivate a safe,
communities and the people who care
flexible, diverse and inclusive workplace
for animals. We achieve more by working
together toward our common goals.
Increase representation Progress Increase representation Progress
Women at director +2% Colleagues +0.3%
of women at the director of people of color at
level or above (People of Color)
level and above to 40% all levels in the U.S. to
DEC 2020 DEC 2020
by 2025 across Zoetis 34.0% 25% by 2025 21.3%
40% 25%
JUN 2020 JUN 2020
32.0% 21.0%
5% Black US Progress 6% Latinx US Progress
Colleagues +0.2% Colleagues +0.2%
colleagues by 2025 colleagues by 2025
(Black) (Latinx)
DEC 2020 DEC 2020
4.2% 5.2%
5% 6%
JUN 2020 JUN 2020
4.0% 5.0%
Be a top 100 leader for Progress
workplace inclusion
• Achieved 100% score on the • Forbes 2021 America’s • Working Mother 100 Best
in key focus areas Human Rights Campaign Best Midsize Employers Companies for 2020
(women, people of Corporate Equality Index
• 2020 Top Company
color, LGBTQ+)
• 2021 Best Companies for Executive Women,
for Latinos, Latino Working Mother Media
Leaders Magazine
Commit to diverse slates Progress
and interview panels as
Diverse slates and
we hire for all positions interview panels are
required for open roles.
16
Zoetis
18 19
Zoetis Sustainability Report 2020
INTRODUCTION
COMMUNITIES
ANIMALS
PLANET
Care and Collaboration Care and Collaboration
Our Colleagues Advancing
Make the Diversity,
Difference Equity & Inclusion
At Zoetis, our people drive our We strive to create a work atmosphere Our Zoetis Colleague Survey is our main At Zoetis, diversity, equity and Our Diversity Aspirations
success and fuel our purpose to where colleagues feel valued and colleague engagement survey. It measures inclusion (DE&I) has always been We are committed to accelerating inclusion,
supported, can give their best every colleague engagement and key drivers equity and more diverse representation
nurture our world and humankind an important part of who we are as
day and feel proud of the company they that enable organizational performance: across the company. After understanding
by advancing care for animals. Our a company and a critical element
work for. Strategy; Leadership; Workplace Climate; our current workforce composition and
colleagues around the globe take of our success. It is demonstrated
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion; our Core formalizing plans, we have developed
Kristin Peck is a signatory of CEO Action for
pride in our positive company culture We assess colleague engagement and most visibly through the make-up of
Beliefs; and Organization Systems and aspirations for change to make Zoetis
Diversity & Inclusion, the largest CEO-driven
and our contributions to animal key drivers enabling organizational Processes. Results from our colleague our leadership team and Board over and our industry more inclusive—
business commitment to advance diversity
performance through the Zoetis Colleague
health. When it comes to our culture, survey inform business priorities the years: a diverse mix of gender, including specific aspirations focused
and inclusion within the workplace. As a
Survey, our employee engagement
our Core Beliefs are the foundation and focus areas for the company. ethnicities and experiences. Their on increasing diverse representation
signatory, Kristin Peck and Zoetis commit
survey, at least annually. Our focus on our
within our company by the end of 2025.
of the commitments we make to passion and support for DE&I has to working together with more than 900
colleagues has contributed to our ability Additionally, we review results and develop
In concert with our overall talent strategy,
our colleagues, customers and been instrumental and unwavering. CEOs from 85 industries to share best
to attract and retain a high-performing action plans at the functional and people
we believe we will reach our aspirations
stakeholders every day. They have workforce, with overall colleague manager level to ensure improvement practices and exchange ideas and learnings
in line with our commitment to attract
In 2020, Zoetis amplified our focus to build more inclusive workplaces.
helped us create an award-winning engagement at 89%, as reported in our opportunities are customized and localized.
and retain the best and brightest.
on DE&I. We began taking concrete
workplace and become a leading last colleague survey in 2020. In 2020, the
actions in order to: attract more diverse
survey was conducted in three waves and Leaders Leading the Way
partner of choice in animal health.
candidates and foster a more inclusive
included all colleagues. Our commitment to advancing diversity,
environment through new partnerships
equity and inclusion starts with our CEO
with diverse organizations; develop
Kristin Peck, the Board of Directors and our
our own colleague resource groups; In March 2021, Kristin Peck joined the
executive team. They make DE&I a priority
and increase training and education Board of Catalyst, a global non-profit
for our colleagues and a competitive
Our Colleagues on DE&I topics for our colleagues. working with leading companies to help
advantage for our business every day.
build workplaces that work for women
and underrepresented groups.
Global Workforce Gender
Global Workforce
Outside the US – 6,000
Male – 55%
US based – 5,300
Female – 45%
Race/Ethnicity Gender
Global Management*
White – 78.7%
Male – 66%
Black – 4.2%
Female – 34%
Asian – 9.4%
Hispanic/Latino – 5.2% *Management levels defined as Director
Level and above.
Other – 2.5%
20 21
Zoetis Sustainability Report 2020
INTRODUCTION
COMMUNITIES
ANIMALS
PLANET
Care and Collaboration Care and Collaboration
Advancing DE&I
Advancing and
Takes All of Us
Valuing Board Diversity
As part of our commitment to DE&I,
At Zoetis, we value the breadth of our entire company embarked on an
perspectives that come from having educational journey in 2020 to help our
a diverse Board of Directors. But global colleagues understand their roles in
diverse boards don’t just happen— our DE&I efforts. An inaugural DE&I Summit
they’re the result of a strategic was the first step in a broader education
move to identify and attract people effort to build on our healthy culture
with the unique combination of and nurture a more diverse, equitable
background, experience and expertise and inclusive workplace. Featuring both
to be effective board members. internal leaders and external experts,
the Summit featured announcements on
Antoinette (Tonie) R. Leatherberry
our DE&I aspirations and commitments,
is a case in point. An experienced
as well as courageous conversations
technology strategist and executive,
about topics such as gender and race.
Ms. Leatherberry was appointed to
serve on the Zoetis Board of Directors Additional education sessions throughout
in December 2020. Recognizing the year focused on building a global
Zoetis’ focus on digital and data foundation around inclusive leadership
transformation, our Board, supported by and behaviors. These sessions drew more
the Corporate Governance Committee, than 5,500 attendees in 2020, including
Board Diversity
conducted a search for a director 92% of senior leaders. Our DE&I education
Action Alliance
who could provide valuable digital journey continues with plans to introduce
and data experience and insights. In November 2020, we underscored more complex DE&I topics throughout 2021.
Partnering for Change • The Association of American Veterinary
our recognition that leadership in DE&I Council
The Corporate Governance Committee We believe partnering with outside Medical Colleges (AAVMC), where we
corporate diversity starts at the top
also asked the third-party search The Zoetis Diversity, Equity and organizations and institutions is critical support the future of the veterinary
by joining the Board Diversity Action
firm it worked with to ensure diverse Inclusion Council, pictured above, is to expanding and diversifying the talent industry through a partnership with the
Alliance, whose mission is to increase
candidates who met our search a group of Zoetis colleagues across pool for our company and industry. It’s Zoetis Veterinary Student Scholarship
the representation of racially and
criteria were included on the list of locations, functions and communities also an opportunity for our business and Program that focuses on addressing the
ethnically diverse directors on corporate
potential candidates. Ms. Leatherberry who partner with the DE&I team as colleagues to give back to the wonderful issue of student debt and the need to
boards starting with Black directors. The
is a long-time Deloitte executive ambassadors and champions for communities that we are part of. foster diversity in the profession. Zoetis
Board Diversity Action Alliance requires
and technology leader who brings DE&I initiatives. has provided more than $7.9 million in
corporate signatories to voluntarily Our partnerships include:
to the Zoetis Board valuable insights scholarships through this program.
commit to: (1) increase the number of
• INROADS and Minorities in Agriculture,
gained from her career working with As part of our involvement with CEO Action
Black directors on the Board to one or
Natural Resources and Related
Fortune 500 companies on complex for Diversity & Inclusion, Zoetis colleague
more; (2) disclose the self-identified race
Sciences (MANRRS), organizations that
information technology transformations Dr. Christine Jenkins, Vice President and
and ethnicity of the Board’s directors;
help underrepresented high school
and operational issues. Further, Ms. Chief Medical Officer, U.S., is serving as
and (3) report annually on diversity,
and college students learn about
Leatherberry has devoted much of her a CEO Action for Racial Equity fellow. In
equity and inclusion measures.
career paths and opportunities.
professional life to creating opportunities this role, she is working with more than
for women and people of color. • Management Leadership for Tomorrow 100 CEO Action signatories to identify,
(MLT), an organization focused on develop and promote scalable and
With the addition of Ms. Leatherberry,
ensuring underrepresented talent is sustainable public policies and corporate
the 11-member Zoetis Board includes
represented in leadership pipelines. engagement to address societal systemic
four female directors and three racially
and ethnically diverse directors.1 • Colleges of veterinary medicine—we racism and social injustice, and improve
nurture our long-standing partnerships, societal well-being. Fellows focus their
including those with Historically efforts on four key areas of societal well-
1 As of May 20, 2021. Black Colleges and Universities, to being: education, healthcare, public
support leadership and diversity safety and economic empowerment.
among future veterinarians.
22 23
Zoetis Sustainability Report 2020
INTRODUCTION
COMMUNITIES
ANIMALS
PLANET
Care and Collaboration Care and Collaboration
Expanding Colleague DNA
WAVES
Family Friendly Employee Assistance Programs Early in the pandemic, we sought feedback
Resource Groups (The Differently- (Women Achieving and Inclusive Benefits Our employee assistance programs (EAP) from our colleagues on our response and
We have expanded our colleague abled Neurodiversity Vision, Excellence and Our approach to benefits starts with the across the globe provide emotional and their feelings about the future of work
resource groups (CRGs) to bring together Alliance) Success) recognition that different colleagues mental health and wellness support, many through a colleague survey. Eighty-five
colleagues who share similar backgrounds, DNA’s mission is to advance awareness WAVES is a community have different needs. We want our with innovative care options, including percent of colleagues who responded
experiences or interests and can help us and inclusion for individuals who are that is building a longer table to benefits to be there for all of us. self-guided apps, video coaching, digital were satisfied with the company’s focus
work toward our DE&I goals. These groups differently-abled and/or have neurological include colleagues of all genders lessons and exercises, and expert on well-being; the actions taken by the
are already a critical voice of influence differences and caretakers/allies at Zoetis. who share the common purpose of In 2020, we introduced several new advice, such as legal, financial, identity company; and the communications from
on our DE&I priorities and will help us elevating women for leadership. benefits that enhance what we already offer theft, and dependent care services. the company. Ninety-four percent of
LATINX CRG by modernizing our benefits program and colleagues felt they were able to effectively
reach additional candidates who may not
Our Latinx CRG’s further supporting the diverse needs of all We introduced an enhanced EAP perform their role amidst changes due
think of Zoetis as a potential employer.
mission is to promote ZECC our colleagues. For example, in the U.S. we: benefit in the U.S. in 2020 that to the pandemic. We also rolled out
Additionally, we are in the early stages and foster the cultural (Zoetis Early includes up to 16 counseling sessions additional benefits for colleagues to
• Enhanced our Paid Parental Leave
of supporting interested colleagues with diversity of its members, Career Champions) annually either in person or via video. support them through this time, including:
program to provide all colleagues
the formation of a colleague resource ZECC embraces all A well-being and resiliency mobile
both professional and personally. The
group focused on Asian and Pacific colleagues, especially six weeks of 100% paid leave after app is also available with the EAP. • Enhanced back-up care at U.S. locations,
Latinx CRG drives awareness and
Islander colleagues. those within their first five years with welcoming a child through birth or providing subsidized near-site or in-
change for the Hispanic and Latinx
Zoetis. ZECC strives to provide access to adoption. Birth mothers continue to Flexibility home back-up care that colleagues
colleagues across the organization.
BELIEVERS a diverse, global cross-functional network receive additional fully paid short-term We offer an array of flexible work could use when regular daycare,
(Black Employees Leading of Zoetis colleagues that will help nurture disability benefits, and the primary arrangements that help colleagues childcare or eldercare arrangements fell
in Inclusion, Equity, Vision, Proud and Welcome the new colleague experience through adoptive parent will receive an additional integrate their work and personal through (coverage for up to 60 days per
Education, Recruitment (LGBTQ+ CRG) education, leadership, mentorship six weeks of paid leave through our responsibilities, including the ability dependent per year).
PAW seeks to build Adoption Paid Leave of Absence. for colleagues to work from home or
and Strategy) and networking opportunities.
an organizational We also offer phased return to work from an off-site location; alternate their • Academic support for learning pods
The Black Colleague Resource Group
culture of acceptance following parental leave, allowing new work schedules to set their own start and tutoring to support remote learning
seeks to ensure all colleagues feel
and inclusion, not only with the parents the flexibility to ease back and end times; and pursue flexible environments. This included match
included and are treated fairly while
LGBTQ+ community within Zoetis, into their full-time job over time. arrangements to accommodate long and search tools for finding educators
providing educational and mentorship
but with all Zoetis colleagues. commutes and other personal needs. that can manage small-group learning
programs that will develop and inspire
• Extended fertility benefits to single pods and access to exclusive discounts
growth for all individuals and Zoetis—
parents and same-sex couples and Supporting Colleagues through on tutoring, test prep and enrichment
now, tomorrow and in the future.
added new surrogacy benefits. the COVID-19 Pandemic classes from high-quality partners.
The health, well-being and safety of our
• Established full coverage for gender colleagues and their families was—and • Flu shot clinics on-site to ensure
Supportive transition related to a diagnosis of gender continues to be—our top priority as we colleagues were able to safely receive
dysphoria, based on guidelines provided navigated the COVID-19 pandemic. We their flu vaccination in the fall.
Benefits by the World Professional Association
established the principles of ensuring our
for Transgender Health (WPATH).
and Policies colleagues can be safe, feel safe and feel
supported, which guided the actions we
• Introduced an array of benefits for
We are proud to offer competitive Equitable and to ensure that salaries established when
took to support our colleagues through
caregiver and education support, e.g.,
healthcare and retirement savings Competitive Compensation colleagues are hired, promoted or awarded the pandemic. This included moving
a parental support benefit for parents
We’re committed to maintaining an inclusive annual salary increases consider relevant
benefits that help our colleagues approximately 70% of our workforce
raising school-age children with
environment where every colleague can factors such as experience, qualifications,
and their families access the best into remote work arrangements and
learning and behavior needs; caregiver
thrive. In 2017, we performed an internal performance and applicable market data
implementing strict health and safety
healthcare and reach their personal support to support colleagues with
review of pay practices to ensure gender to seek pay equity across our colleagues.
protocols in our essential sites that
savings goals. In addition, we offer sick or aging loved ones; and college
pay equity. This review found no material
We have a pay-for-performance culture remained open, including social distancing,
an array of benefits, policies and or unexplainable pay gaps based on coaching programs for colleagues
and we measure performance against masks and temperature checks.
and their high school-age students
programs to support employee well- gender. In 2020, we expanded this review
objectives established annually at the
with test prep and tutoring benefits.
being in every sense, from health beyond gender to include race/ethnicity
company, organization and individual
across our U.S. colleagues. The 2020
and financial wellness to family and level. Individual objectives focus on two
review similarly confirmed that there were
lifestyle resources. to three critical priorities plus day-to-
no noteworthy or unexplainable pay gaps
day job responsibilities. Managers and
related to gender or race/ethnicity. Our pay
colleagues meet annually to discuss
practices and processes include safeguards
performance against objectives.
24 25
Zoetis Sustainability Report 2020
INTRODUCTION
COMMUNITIES
ANIMALS
PLANET
Care and Collaboration Care and Collaboration
Developing Award-Winning
our Colleagues Culture
Talent development is a strategic Zoetis Core Competencies Mentoring Programs Leadership Development At Zoetis, we’re proud of the culture we have built around
priority for our business, and we Within Your Development Matters are Zoetis offers mentoring programs— Programs our Core Beliefs and grateful that our company has been
the Zoetis Core Competencies, a set of including one exclusively for women— We offer multiple leadership development
offer opportunities for growth
recognized by respected publications and organizations
skills and behaviors we have defined that play an important part in driving programs. The President’s Leadership
at all levels of the company. Our
as important to success at Zoetis the success and advancement of our Development Program (PLDP) develops around the world. Recent achievements include:
goal is to ensure we have the right
within each level of the organization. colleagues. Colleagues who participate high-potential colleagues in our U.S.
colleagues with the right skills in
The Competencies give colleagues a in our mentoring programs enhance their Operations into future leaders. Using
the right roles with the appropriate practical tool to evaluate and develop a business acumen and self-awareness skills, a year-long action learning program, 2021 2020
Forbes Best Top Company for
support to build leadership capability variety of skills and behaviors that result and obtain honest, constructive feedback. the PLDP engages colleagues to work
Midsize Employer Executive Women |
and drive organizational results. in more effective career planning. Development Programs in teams on a real business-critical Working Mother Media
project outside of their normal job scope.
We have developed a 360 feedback tool Focused on Diverse Talent
As business priorities evolve and we Senior leadership provides mentoring
to support colleague development of Zoetis is one of a select group of 2021 2020
seek to innovate, we work to nurture to enhance skills and capabilities, and Best Place to Work for Working Mother Top our Competencies. This tool is designed organizations invited to participate in the
participants engage in learning-reflection LGBTQ Equality | Human 100 Companies
and develop the talent we have to help colleagues increase their self- McKinsey Black Leadership Academy in Rights Campaign
activities. At the end of the program,
into the talent we need by taking a awareness and develop themselves 2020. As part of this initiative, 40 Black
participants emerge as advanced leaders,
programmatic and focused approach through individual assessment, peer colleagues participated in development
demonstrating greater business acumen, 2021 2020
and internal partner assessment and programs focused on strengthening core
to colleague development, involving Top 25 Employers for Latinos Best Workplace for Mental
confidence and overall success.
direct report and leadership assessment. leadership and management capabilities. | Latino Leaders Magazine Wellness in Canada |
annual performance reviews and Great Place to Work
This tool has helped colleagues identify The programs also provided networking Our Emerging Senior Leaders initiative
regular coaching and feedback.
development opportunities and hidden opportunities across organizations. is a year-long targeted skill-based
potential and informed their personal To support these programs, we have development initiative for senior 2021 2020
Top Employer Belgium Best Workplace for Women in
developmental goals. The Competencies provided participants with sponsorship colleagues in international markets
Canada | Great Place to Work
are also a critical component of our and networking opportunities with identified as key talent. The objective
leadership development programs for members of our Executive Team. is to prepare a strong and diverse
Your Development Matters
managers to build and motivate successful leadership bench by strengthening
For all colleagues, Zoetis has a customized, We also provide opportunities for diverse 2020 2020
teams. In addition to curriculum on current and future leader competencies
colleagues and members of our colleague Kincentric Best Best Workplace in Italy
individualized, self-paced development
the Zoetis Core Competencies, these and business outcomes in a sustainable Employer in China | Great Place to Work
resource groups to participate in industry-
program designed to help colleagues
leadership development programs way. The program focuses on skills
leading conferences. For example, each
pursue their individual development
cover topics such as recruitment and such as strategic project management,
year approximately 25 women leaders
goals with the support of the organization
selection, strength assessment, career targeted content learning, and cross- 2020 2020
are selected to represent Zoetis at the
and their manager. It includes tools, Best & Biggest in Brazil Best Workplace in Turkey
development, performance management, business and cultural collaboration.
Simmons Leadership Conference. | Exame Magazine | Great Place to Work
trainings and self-assessment capabilities
emotional intelligence and more.
Additionally, our Leadership Essentials
to help colleagues define their career Opportunity Finder
program – a new program launched in 2019
aspirations and develop plans to achieve Tuition Reimbursement Program Opportunity Finder is a program that aims
their goals. Corresponding content is The Zoetis U.S. Tuition Reimbursement to develop and retain top R&D talent. for first-line field managers and managers 2020 2020
in newly acquired businesses (typically Best Workplace in Costa Forbes Diamond
available for managers to support their Program reimburses full-time eligible It provides a simple way for colleagues Rica | Great Place to Work Award in Poland
colleagues new to people management)
colleagues in defining and achieving colleagues up to $15,000 annually to “raise their hand” for development
– is focused on building and motivating
their goals. Your Development Matters to further their education, develop assignments and be matched with
successful teams. The curriculum stresses
provides colleagues with robust and individual potential, and improve their opportunities to grow their careers.
the importance of diversity through topics
meaningful individual development plans. level of professional and technical The Opportunity Finder also enables
on recruitment and candidate selection,
achievement. In 2020, 198 colleagues colleagues to confidentially inform others
leadership behavior assessment, career
received tuition reimbursement, up 28% about opportunities that would interest
development, performance management,
compared to 2019. About half of Tuition them if nothing is currently available.
emotional intelligence and more.
Reimbursement participants in 2020
were women and about a quarter of
participants were colleagues of color.
26 27
Zoetis Sustainability Report 2020
INTRODUCTION
COMMUNITIES
ANIMALS
PLANET
Care and Collaboration Care and Collaboration
Caring for our
Occupational
Health & Safety
Community
We’re committed to ensuring a safe our sites prior to beginning work. By Our safety programs have enabled us
working environment for our colleagues. following this approach, we partner with to achieve solid safety performance,
Our Global Environment, Health & Safety our contractors to provide a safe work with TIR and LTIR rates lower than the
(EHS) Policy Standards define EHS environment for all workers at our facilities. industry averages (U.S. averages in 2019
performance requirements for each site, were 1.6 for TIR and 0.5 for LTIR). Our Aspirations
We track key health and safety
along with procedures and recommended procedures emphasize the need for the
performance metrics—total injury rate
practices. We strive to build a best-in- causes of all injuries to be investigated
(TIR), lost time injury rate (LTIR), restricted
class safety culture in everything we and for action plans to be implemented
work injuries and medical treatment
Support our
do. We believe in identifying risks and to mitigate potential recurrence.
injuries—monthly for all manufacturing communities As our Driven to Care strategy
correcting issues before injuries occur.
and Veterinary Medicine Research and Metric1 2020 2019 2018 was announced in early 2021, we
We achieve this through corporate audits,
Development sites, and for U.S. offices, TIR 0.46 0.82 0.68 continue to improve our process
leadership process confirmation, injury Contribute 2,500 Progress
field force, fleet and logistics. We track TIR LTIR 0.20 0.24 0.21 for tracking our global efforts
prevention programs, and daily, weekly, volunteer days (20,000 In 2021, we will establish and LTIR for all our operations worldwide. 1 These metrics cover worldwide operations. so we can monitor our progress
and monthly floor-level inspections. We hours) annually in the a tracking process which
toward achieving these targets.
also foster an open environment that Our Health and Safety communities we serve will enable us to report on We expect to have this in place to
promotes a culture of mindfulness focused our progress in 2022.
Response to COVID-19 track our work in 2021 and beyond.
on individuals identifying risky behavior
in themselves and talking to each other As the COVID-19 pandemic evolved, operations, we implemented procedures
when they see an unsafe behavior. This the health, safety and well-being of to help limit the spread of the virus
allows each person to be involved in our colleagues has been the primary and minimize risk to our colleagues.
keeping themselves and others safe. focus of our response. Our approach
We took numerous actions including:
was guided by our Core Beliefs, Support veterinary
Zoetis has three manufacturing sites:
especially that our colleagues make • Implementing additional cleaning and professionals
(Charles City, Iowa, Lincoln, Neb.,
the difference, do the right thing and sanitizing procedures
White Hall, Ill.) and one logistics center demonstrate customer obsession. We • Adapting work processes and Provide at least $1 Progress Provide access to Progress
(Lee’s Summit, Mo.) certified as Star
initiated a daily Global COVID-19 Crisis procedures to allow social distancing million in scholarships Over $934,000 provided in professional programs Over $974,000 invested
Sites under the Occupational Safety
Response Team comprising the Zoetis to veterinary students scholarships to support over for veterinarians in in professional programs
and Health Administration (OSHA)’s • Installing physical barriers in areas
Executive Team and key functional 400 students. In the U.S., across over 80% of the
Voluntary Protection Program (OSHA where distancing was not possible annually, focusing on the countries where
leaders to address colleague safety and 34% of students supported markets we serve.
VPP). Star recognizes employers and • Establishing a face covering policy underrepresented we have a presence
business continuity. We established local by the Zoetis/Association
employees who demonstrate exemplary groups where possible
COVID-19 teams and empowered them We employed visual reminders—such as of American Veterinary
achievement in preventing and controlling
to make decisions about site actions Xs spaced six feet apart on break room Medical Colleges (AAVMC)
occupational safety and health hazards
in accordance with local conditions, tables, and posters promoting frequent Veterinary Student Scholarship
in the development, implementation,
guidance from local governments and and thorough handwashing—throughout Program were diverse.
and continuous improvement of their
aligned to our COVID-19 principles of our sites. In cases where a colleague
safety and health management system.
‘Be Safe, Feel Safe, Feel Supported.’ tested positive for COVID-19, our Human
To participate, employers must apply
Resources and Occupational Health Expand veterinary care access Provide animal care
to OSHA and undergo a rigorous onsite While prioritizing colleague safety, Zoetis
Nurses implemented a robust contact to underserved populations in disaster relief
evaluation. We extend the principles of implemented contingency plans to
tracing program. To ensure colleagues
the OSHA VPP Star recognition across our continue manufacturing and delivering
would be open about potential illness Expand veterinary care Progress Care for at least Progress
sites worldwide through the Zoetis EHS vital medicines to our customers,
and exposures, we adapted our sick
Star program. In 2020, we self-certified the maintain the welfare of animals in our access to reach at least In 2021, we will establish 225,000 animals Provided over $1.83 million
pay policy so colleagues were paid
first Zoetis Star site in Campinas, Brazil. care and continue essential research and 30,000 pet owners in- a tracking process which impacted by disasters globally to care for animals
if quarantine was required due to a
development activities with an impact need annually through will enable us to report on annually through impacted by disasters. In 2021,
Contractor Safety is an important aspect positive test or to an exposure within
on future innovations for animal health. our progress in 2022. we will establish a tracking
charitable and human- charitable programs
of our site safety programs. We screen or outside the workplace. These and
During the pandemic, we implemented process for the number of
contractors to ensure they have the other ongoing actions have enabled animal bond programs and in-kind donations
travel restrictions and a work from home animals impacted that will enable
relevant qualifications and licenses and are us to maintain a supply of our products
policy. Where essential personnel were us to report our progress in 2022.
trained in our contractor safety procedures, without any significant disruptions.
required to be on site to support critical
as well as specific hazards present at
28 29
Zoetis Sustainability Report 2020
INTRODUCTION
COMMUNITIES
ANIMALS
PLANET
Care and Collaboration Care and Collaboration
In 2020, Zoetis was
proud to support
In Canada, Zoetis expanded vet care In Italy, Zoetis provided COVID-19 relief by donating In China, Zoetis provided professional
communities access to pet owners in-need with over $5,000 to the Italian Red Cross. Zoetis Italy program support with over $400,000
product donations to the University of also donated technical equipment and PPE to invested in training for veterinarians
across the globe
Montreal's Homeless Youth Program. the Cremona Hospital. The hospital is located and farmers. These programs provided
The program offers medical care to the in one of the regions that was highly impacted skills-based support to further advance
animals of homeless youth in Montreal. by COVID-19 when the outbreak first began. veterinarians and farmers in their profession.
Zoetis’ approach to giving works
alongside our broader sustainability
strategy. In 2020, we invested over
$6 million globally to support animals
and the people who care for them.
Driven by our colleagues’ local efforts
around the world—and recognizing
that we achieve more by working
together toward our common goals—
our community efforts focus on:
• Supporting veterinary professionals
• Expanding access to animal care
• Providing animal care in
disaster relief
Given the unprecedented global
COVID-19 crisis that began in 2020, In the United States, Zoetis worked with local
food banks to offer support in response to
Zoetis is proud to have directed
the COVID-19 pandemic. Zoetis funded the
9.6% of the company’s overall purchase of 17 cold storage units through a
contributions to COVID-19 relief. $50,000 donation to The Dairy Alliance and
Midwest Dairy, allowing recipient food banks
to serve an estimated 20,000 people each
Shading represents where Zoetis
month. Zoetis also ensured food banks were
provided support for communities
able to stock up on food and supplies through
during 2020. a $25,000 donation to Feeding America.
In Brazil, Zoetis supported the human animal In South Africa, Zoetis treated animals In Australia, Zoetis supported veterinary
bond by working with Patas Therapeutas, in-need through disaster relief. Product mental wellness with over $75,000 donated
an NGO that partners with volunteers to donations were provided to over 450 to Beyond Blue, a nonprofit focused
visit hospitals, clinics, and homes for the veterinary clinics and animal shelters on mental health and wellbeing. Over
elderly with pets. Zoetis Brazil’s support experiencing hardships during the the last four years, Zoetis Australia has
helped those in need experience the COVID-19 pandemic. Zoetis South Africa supported the organization’s efforts to
physical, emotional, and mental benefits of donated over $400,000 of product to help reach Australian farmers and veterinarians
spending time with animals. animals in-need throughout the year. who are vulnerable to mental health
challenges as a result of rural isolation.
30 31
Zoetis Sustainability Report 2020
INTRODUCTION
COMMUNITIES
ANIMALS
PLANET
Care and Collaboration Care and Collaboration
Community Support Expand Provide
Volunteering Veterinary Veterinary Animal Care in
At Zoetis our colleagues are committed Supporting Our Communities Professionals Care Access to Disaster Relief
to making a positive impact—not only for Zoetis colleagues have an opportunity
Underserved
Zoetis is passionate about supporting animals and those who care for them, to serve the causes close to them. Two Zoetis knows the impact we can have
veterinary professionals and fostering the
but also for our communities. Zoetis colleagues used their Volunteer Days to Populations in caring for animals following a natural
next generation of veterinarians through
provides paid time off for colleagues to prepare food for 80 people at a food pantry disaster. As a result, we have set an initial
volunteer their time, share their resources and homeless shelter. Giving her time to access to education. That’s why we’ve set Expanding veterinary care access to goal of caring for 225,000 animals affected
and expertise, and participate in other feed those in need provided nourishment a goal to provide $1 million in scholarships underserved populations and communities by disasters annually through charitable
activities to help those in need. for the volunteers, too: “I am so happy we annually to veterinary students and in need is critically important to Zoetis. We programs and in-kind donations. In 2020,
were given the time to do this,” said one of provide access to professional programs have established an initial goal of reaching Zoetis was proud to have contributed over
Helping Animals in Need
them. “I knew there was a need for it but for veterinarians in the countries in which 30,000 people annually through charitable $1.83 million in charitable contributions
It's no surprise that many of our colleagues
life has been so busy I had not taken the we have a presence. In 2020, Zoetis and human-animal bond programs. As our and in-kind product donations that went
spend their volunteering efforts in the
time to get involved in this center. I have was proud to have completed 93% of Driven to Care strategy was announced toward helping animals in-need. As our
service of animals in need—a love
now met and formed relationships with our goal, contributing over $934,000 to in early 2021, we continue to improve our Driven to Care strategy was announced
for animals is part of why they are so
them and will continue to give my time!” scholarship programs and over $974,000 to process for tracking our global efforts. in early 2021, we continue to improve our
passionate about working at Zoetis.
professional programs around the world.
process for tracking our global efforts.
Colleagues at the Zoetis Colorado
One colleague spent her Volunteer Day
State Incubator did a fun art project
at a thoroughbred rescue center in West
to benefit kids in the community
Chester, Pa. where she helped groom,
by creating seasonal cards.
feed, and walk retired and rescued
racehorses. “It felt really good to use my
time to help these amazing animals, and Volunteering During
also do some hands-on work in one of my a Pandemic
favorite settings: a horse farm.” she said.
As the novel coronavirus impacted In addition, the Louvain la Neuve site
Another colleague, a veterinarian, the health and well-being of people in Belgium donated five pallets of
volunteered her services with the Fort throughout the world, many Zoetis sanitary equipment to the hospital,
Bend County Animal Shelter, where colleagues found ways to support including Tyvek aprons, plastic shoe and
she helped care for over 40 animals, their local communities in need. hair covers, hand soap and sanitizer,
including performing spays, neuters, shower gels, and paper products.
To help the dedicated doctors and
infectious disease screens, vaccinations
nurses at their local hospital, the “You can never be more proud as a
and Proheart® 6 injections to prevent
Saint-Pierre clinic in Belgium, address leader than when discovering that your
heartworm infestation. She said, “I felt so
critical care needs due to COVID-19, team is not only doing its utmost to
grateful to be part of helping the homeless
our Global Manufacturing and Supply provide the required vaccines to our
pet population of the shelter prepare
(GMS) Engineering and Maintenance customers, but on top of that making
for adoption! I ended the day with an
teams used their expertise to produce that extra effort to support the brave
exhausted body and replenished spirit.”
Personal Protective Equipment (PPE). doctors and nurses at the frontline," said
In South Africa, Zoetis colleagues Coordinated by a GMS colleague, the Zoetis Louvain la Neuve site leader.
celebrated World Animal Day with a the teams used 3D printers to make
collaborative volunteering effort to help in protective visors for the hospital staff.
the Vaal Animal Clinic vaccination drive.
Together, the team made approximately
15 visors per day and delivered them
directly to Saint-Pierre clinic.
33
Sustainability Report 2020
INTRODUCTION
COMMUNITIES
ANIMALS
PLANET
Animals Innovation in Animal Health
Innovation in Innovation
Animal Health
Aspirations
Provide products and services that enable productive and
We use our expertise in animal health to solve sustainable livestock farms that preserve animal welfare
sustainability challenges facing animals and people.
Innovate to create and drive Equip our customers with
adoption of key sustainable innovative products to support their
animal health solutions ambitious environmental, social
and animal welfare goals
We’re proud to contribute to the engage with organizations, such as the and poultry. For several years, we have
important role healthy animals Global Roundtable for Sustainable Beef provided Texas and Puerto Rico our novel
and the Dairy Sustainability Framework, experimental cattle fever tick vaccine
play in our society—deepening
to support collaboration among farmers, (BM86), which has reduced the need for
bonds with pets and nurturing a
ranchers, meat and dairy processors, and acaricide applications and contributed
safe, sustainable food supply. Our
food brands. We also recently joined The to the eradication of resistant ticks. Our
products and services support Sustainability Consortium to focus on CLARIFIDE-Plus genomic predictions
our customers in their essential increasing supply chain transparency and help commercial dairy farmers around
work to predict, prevent, detect sustainability with U.S. pork producers. the world increase financial sustainability
and improve animal welfare by offering
and treat health conditions in
Continuum
wellness solutions that significantly
animals, ensure the efficient and
reduce disease conditions, morbidity
of Care
sustainable production of protein,
and mortality in dairy cows and calves.
and address unmet medical needs.
We commit to innovating across the
continuum of care to predict, prevent,
To support our livestock customers in
detect and treat health conditions in
meeting the world’s growing demand
animals. This includes developing vaccines,
for protein, our innovation efforts are
new classes of antibiotics for veterinary
focused on animal health solutions
use only, novel, nonantibiotic anti-infective
that can help our customers meet their
solutions, diagnostics, genetic tests and
ambitious environmental, social and
digital innovation for precision farming.
animal care goals. Innovative solutions
will be required to produce fish, meat, For example, vaccines have contributed to
poultry, dairy and eggs from fewer, a reduction in the use of antibiotics over
healthier animals with limited land and the years. The approval of the Alphaject
water resources. We are committed to micro 4-2 and Alpha ERM Salar makes
collaborating with veterinary and livestock available products that prevent bacterial
agriculture stakeholders to consider diseases in salmonids. Poulvac E. coli,
how we can better support sustainable another first-in-class vaccine for poultry,
farming practices that can enhance continues to gain use around the world.
both animal health and productivity and These products have had a direct impact
human and environmental health. We on the reduced use of antibiotics in fish
32
Zoetis
34 35
Zoetis Sustainability Report 2020
INTRODUCTION
COMMUNITIES
ANIMALS
PLANET
Innovation in Animal Health Innovation in Animal Health
Combat Diseases
Animal
Welfare
Our Policy on Animal Care and Welfare To support this 3Rs effort, Zoetis supports • The European Partnership for
Aspirations reflects our commitment to ensure that a program called Transition Away from Alternatives to Animal Testing
animals used in our research are treated Animal Testing (TAFAT) where colleagues (EPAA), which is instrumental for
Combat diseases that pose the greatest humanely—we have made it a company are committed to developing and validating 3Rs harmonization efforts.
risk to animals and humans target to ensure compliance with this in-vitro tests as alternatives to traditional in • The European Animal Research
policy at internal and third-party external vivo tests required by regulatory agencies Association, a communication and
facilities. The policy, set by the Zoetis for product release. We have targeted the advocacy group for animal research.
Leverage the Zoetis Center for Transboundary and Emerging Diseases Animal Welfare Board and overseen by humane use of animals as a vital aspect
• Animal Health Europe, the voice of
to develop vaccines for high-impact emerging diseases globally the Zoetis Executive Team, applies to all of adhering to the principles of the 3Rs.
the EU animal health industry, with
Zoetis colleagues, contractors and third-
In addition, Zoetis conducts monitoring a focus on the availability of animal
Invest in R&D on emerging Provide our innovative vaccines party affiliates who undertake any activity of animal welfare programs both at on- medicines in a sustainable way,
on behalf of Zoetis that involves animals.
infectious diseases to all relevant markets via tenders site locations and with off-site partners including through advocating for a
Our Animal Care and Ethics Council is or other go-to-market pathways around the globe. Audits are conducted high standard of animal welfare.
responsible for executing the policy, which
by individuals experienced in animal
• Animal Health Institute, which focuses
includes provisions for site accreditation
welfare regulations, auditing practices and
on in-vitro technology to replace
by the international animal care and
sound professional judgment. The goal:
animal testing for product release,
With at least 75% of emerging At Zoetis, we organize our response to Our expertise in animal diseases and our use accreditation organization, AAALAC to ensure compliance with local animal
with a focus on quality manufacturing
infectious diseases, including outbreaks of infectious diseases through proven process of identifying emerging International, country-defined regulatory care and welfare standards and Zoetis
and modern technology.
COVID-19, having an animal origin, our Center for Transboundary and Emerging infectious diseases led us to develop SARS- monitoring and local ethical oversight policies and to provide information for
Diseases (CTED). Our scientists mobilize CoV-2 diagnostic tests and a vaccine for committee monitoring. Our standards of continuous improvement in animal welfare. Zoetis works directly with regulators to
understanding the connection
resources from across the company and animals. We’re also continuing our work animal care and welfare meet or exceed increase the recognition and acceptance
between animal health and human Advancing the use of
work closely with leaders from government, to develop a vaccine that can help protect those required by applicable local, national, of alternative models where such
Alternative Models Through
health is more important than ever. health organizations, and the veterinary and pigs against African Swine Fever, a highly or international laws and regulations. alternatives can be used appropriately.
Partnerships, Engagements
livestock agricultural communities to identify contagious, infectious animal disease that
The guiding principles of the internationally Further, a 3Rs Award program sponsored
and Colleagues Innovation
infectious disease threats early and develop only impacts pigs, not people.
established 3Rs—Replacement, Reduction by the Zoetis Animal Welfare Board
Zoetis is committed to cross-industry
solutions—including vaccines and diagnostic
and Refinement—underpin the humane demonstrates our commitment to
efforts to develop and refine new in-vitro
tests—to help rapidly control them.
use of animals in scientific research and recognize and reward scientific creativity
testing and predictive informatics-based
testing. The 3Rs include reducing the in implementing alternatives.
systems that hold promise for reducing
number of animals required, refining
animal usage. To drive our commitment,
Developing our COVID-19 Vaccine
studies to ensure humane conditions
we are members of these organizations:
Based on initial concerns about SARS-CoV-2 in domestic and replacing animals with alternative
animals, Zoetis initiated development activities for methods whenever possible.
diagnostic tests and a vaccine that could be used in
animals. We completed our initial studies in eight months.
This vaccine was used experimentally to help the San
Diego Zoo’s veterinary team with its Great Apes.
We developed and validated feline- and canine-specific
real-time Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) tests
for SARS-CoV-2 specific RNA. When a veterinarian
and local health authorities determine an animal
should be tested for SARS-CoV-2, Zoetis Reference
Laboratories can perform real-time PCR testing that
can be used to detect SARS-CoV-2 in animals.
ecnaillA
efildliW
ooZ
ogeiD
naS
©
:tiderc
otohP
36 37
Zoetis Sustainability Report 2020
INTRODUCTION
COMMUNITIES
ANIMALS
PLANET
Innovation in Animal Health Innovation in Animal Health
Antibiotic Stewardship
Aquaculture Vaccine
Reduces Antibiotic Use
Vaccination helps keep fish healthy and Vaccination regimes combined probably the most important single factor
more productive. During the recent World with effective disease enabling the Norwegian aquaculture
Aspirations
One Health Congress, Chief Veterinary management contribute to: industry to grow from 57,000 tons in 1987
Office of Norway, Knut Rønningen to 1,250,000 tons in 2012. By introducing
Promote a preventive approach to animal health • Improved fish health and survival during
presented a study on “How to address predictable vaccines, the industry has
with positive implications on human health production
One Health Issues with veterinary reduced its use of antibiotics by 99.8%
• Improved yield by higher survival rate
vaccination - Importance of vaccination per ton of trout and salmon produced,
and improved feed conversion
in the Aquaculture Industry to reduce compared to the 1987 level. Since the
Promote responsible use of Innovate around anti-microbial AMR - The Norwegian Experience." • Secure fish export and trade introduction of the oil-based vaccine
antibiotics through technical resistance to reduce the Vaccines developed by our aquatic • Improved food safety for the consumer concept, nearly two billion Norwegian
salmonids have been injected with
education, introducing antibiotic dependency on antibiotic classes health business, PHARMAQ, reduce These injectable vaccines enabled the
vaccines from PHARMAQ.
alternatives, and developing shared with human health diseases and contribute to sustainable, industry to move from treatment with
diagnostic and digital tools profitable growth in farmed salmon. regular use of antibiotics to prevention
Vaccination of salmon ultimately helps and protection through routine
reduce the use of antibiotics while vaccination. Effective vaccines were
lessening pressure on the environment.
Because we want to protect the Removed Growth Promotion Antimicrobial Resistance
health of animals and humans, As part of our commitment to using Surveillance Program
United States United Kingdom Canada
we have focused on promoting antibiotics responsibly in animals and We conduct surveillance for antimicrobial
the responsible use of antibiotics people, as of June 2020 we no longer resistance in pathogens that threaten In collaboration with Colorado State We have developed educational Zoetis is one of the sponsors of the
sell products containing medically the health of animals to help preserve University, we established the Zoetis resources for veterinarians through the Canadian Global Food Animal Residue
in animals. We collaborate with
important antibiotics (as defined by the efficacy of antibiotics. Approximately Incubator Research Lab to explore the UK National Office of Animal Health and Avoidance Databank (CgFARAD) to ensure
stakeholders around the world
the Food and Drug Administration) and 40 veterinary labs in the U.S. and livestock immune system and target new for the fourth International Antibiotic a safe food supply. CgFARAD helps
to foster responsible use and
labeled exclusively for growth promotion Canada participate in our surveillance immunotherapies—paving the way for Guardian Awards for Animal Medicines veterinarians provide livestock and poultry
veterinary involvement when in animals. This change came after we program, which began in 1998. new alternatives to antibiotics in food- Best Practice Training Program. producers with accurate withdrawal
antibiotics are used to preserve their carefully considered animal health—and producing animals. The initial focus is information on the disposition of drugs,
Since 1993, Zoetis has taken a leading
effectiveness for decades to come. human health—needs in the few remaining biotherapeutics for cattle, which could yield including antimicrobials in animals and
role in developing standards for
markets where this practice occurred. To broader implications for pigs and poultry. their milk, meat and egg products.
antimicrobial susceptibility testing
ensure animal health and welfare standards
of veterinary pathogens through the Our commitment to the Centers for Disease
continue to be upheld, we provided
Clinical and Laboratory Standards Control and Prevention Antimicrobial
knowledge and tools to customers in
Institute Subcommittee on Veterinary Resistance Challenge includes:
these markets as they transitioned to new
Antimicrobial Susceptibility. Antimicrobial
ways to raise their animals. Completing • Promoting the involvement of veterinary
Susceptibility tests are the primary
this action makes good on our resolve professionals in antibiotic stewardship
diagnostic tool used by clinicians for
for medically important antibiotics to be
selection of the most appropriate • Expanding access to veterinary care
used only for therapeutic purposes.
antimicrobial to treat an infection. • Supporting broader use of vaccines
and modern animal husbandry
and biosecurity practices to
help prevent disease
• Working to develop veterinary-
only antibiotics and antibiotic
alternatives, novel vaccine
technologies, and diagnostic tests
38 39
Zoetis Sustainability Report 2020
INTRODUCTION
COMMUNITIES
ANIMALS
PLANET
Innovation in Animal Health Innovation in Animal Health
Access to Veterinary Care
in Emerging Markets
Aspirations
Promote a preventive approach to animal health
with positive implications on human health
Through our A.L.P.H.A. initiative with focus in Africa, by 2025 we will:
Train 100,000 farmers, Progress Increase women trainees Progress
veterinary professionals to 50% of trainees
Trained 13,234 farmers, 30% of trainees are women.
and lab technicians veterinarians, paraveterinarians,
distributors and lab personnel
over 619 training days.
Treat 10 million cows with Progress Treat 200 million Progress
positive implications on Treated 1.1 million cows.1 chickens with positive Treated 110 million chickens.2
smallholder livelihoods, implications on
food security and smallholder livelihoods,
the environment food security and
the environment
We are proud to contribute to the Increasing Access to Veterinary Veterinary medicines and services Veterinary Laboratory Networks Training and education With the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic,
important role healthy animals play Services in Sub-Saharan Africa So far, 36 products have received full Diagnostic services for farmers, including To-date, 13,234 individuals, there was an efficient shift toward online
Our African Livestock Productivity and regulatory approval for commercialization, veterinary input and correct disease including farmers, veterinarians and training delivery due to limitations on
in our society, and in nurturing a
Health Advancement (A.L.P.H.A.) initiative, and a further 86 are pending approval – diagnosis, are typically lacking in Sub- paraveterinarians, distributors, and lab face-to-face interactions, although
safe, sustainable food supply. Our
co-funded with the Bill & Melinda Gates increasing availability of quality products Sahara Africa. This results in economic personnel have been trained through female participation was reduced.
products and services support our
Foundation, helps improve livestock in Uganda, Nigeria, Ethiopia and Tanzania. losses to farmers from inappropriate 619 training days. In 2020 alone, 5,457 This decrease reflects lower digital
customers in their essential work to
health and positively impact farmers’ The livestock portfolio now available disease treatments and increases risk of people were trained (with an estimated readiness and connectivity availability
predict, prevent, detect and treat livelihoods in sub-Saharan Africa. The includes products for swine, poultry antimicrobial resistance. At the end of 2020, extended reach of some 268,950 people for women farmers, which is a key
illness in animals, and address initiative aims for gender equality in and ruminants, incorporating important ten labs were opened in collaboration with through a Train-the-Trainer approach3) in point of focus to improve for 2021.
unmet medical needs, with a focus animal health training for women. vaccines for disease prevention. Pooled local strategic partners to serve farming 349 training days. Training courses have
vaccination projects have been launched communities, and a further seven labs been tailored according to key training gaps
on underserved rural communities.
The A.L.P.H.A. initiative began in
in Tanzania (poultry) and Uganda (swine) to are in development. Intensive training identified by regional surveys to ensure
We are increasingly supporting
2017 in Uganda, Nigeria and Ethiopia,
increase access to quality vaccines applied was held for laboratory staff and vets on maximal relevance to stakeholders — and
a shift from disease treatment and later expanded into Tanzania.
in a correct and efficient manner. Over diagnostic testing and sampling, with disease prevention through vaccination
to prevention, thus reducing use It focuses on three pillars:
1.7 billion doses of treatment/prevention logistics lines developed in collaboration is at the forefront of training topics.
of antimicrobials in livestock. • Veterinary medicines and services products have been supplied to the with farming associations to support
markets which will have a considerable farmers. An estimated 6,605 chicken flocks
• Veterinary laboratory network
impact on livestock health in the region. and 12,000 cows were tested in 2020.
• Training and education
1 Assumption used that every cow receives at least 2 doses of treatment.
2 A ssumption used that every bird receives at least 3 doses (prevention and treatment). 3 Assumption used that every trained person trains 50 other people.
noitadnuoF
setaG
adnileM
&
lliB
©
:tiderc
otohP
41
Sustainability Report 2020
INTRODUCTION
COMMUNITIES
ANIMALS
PLANET
Planet The Drive to Protect Our Planet
The Drive to
Aspirations
Protect Our Planet
To minimize our carbon footprint, rethink our
packaging to reduce its environmental footprint
and improve the sustainability in our locations
We steward resources responsibly and minimize
our impact, as we deliver products and
services that advance the health of animals.
Source 100% renewable Progress Reduce energy intensity Progress
energy by 2050 • 8.8% renewable electricity in manufacturing and Reduced energy intensity in
sourced to date (RE100 R&D by 5% by 20251 manufacturing and R&D by 2.2%.
commitment).
• 4.3% renewable energy
sourced to date.
Rethink business travel Progress
and work-from-home Across Zoetis, we recognize the opportunity to working that can have an impact on colleague
policies to reduce rethink business travel and work-from-home safety and well-being while minimizing the
transportation-related policies to reduce non-essential travel and environmental impacts of travel. In 2021,
commuting. As a result, we have established we will finalize our approach and explore
emissions by 25%
a “Return to the Workplace” cross-functional tracking mechanisms so we can report our
team to shape how we evolve our ways of progress toward our goals in the future.
Integrate sustainability Progress
considerations into all Formed the Packaging Council, a cross- Developing tools and resources to weigh
new packaging designs functional group with representatives from sustainability considerations such as
Veterinary Medicine Research and Development, recyclability, use of recycled material and
Commercial, Commercial Development, greenhouse gas emissions with other factors,
and Global Manufacturing and Supply. such as cost, time-to-market and customer
experience into new packaging options.
Stand-up “Location Progress
Sustainability” teams
We believe cross-functional working groups will We will stand these working groups up in 2021
in major sites by be instrumental in implementing our strategy and will share our progress in future reporting.
the end of 2021 and goals by engaging our colleagues globally
to achieve the Protect Our Planet goals.
1 Based on 2019 baseline. Energy intensity is gigajoules per $1 million in revenue.
40
Zoetis
42 43
Zoetis Sustainability Report 2020
INTRODUCTION
COMMUNITIES
ANIMALS
PLANET
The Drive to Protect Our Planet The Drive to Protect Our Planet
Environmental Energy and
Management Greenhouse
Program Gas Emissions
Our global EHS management To ensure adherence to our EHS In 2020, we implemented a cloud-based We are committed to reducing Manufacturing Site Energy R&D Site Energy Projects:
principles ensure that all Zoetis management system, we also EHS software tool that enables Zoetis to our energy use and associated Projects: Rathdrum, Ireland Kalamazoo, Michigan
better collect and track data and provide
sites achieve and maintain conduct corporate audits of our greenhouse gas emissions. To In 2020 our Rathdrum, Ireland Our Veterinary Medicine Research
reports on EHS progress. We also use
consistently high levels of EHS operating sites. In addition, two achieve this, we continue to invest manufacturing site initiated several energy and Development site in Kalamazoo,
this tool to develop program advances
improvement and reliability projects as part Mich. completed the following energy
performance. Our principles are of our sites – Catania, Italy and in energy efficiency upgrades in
and initiatives to drive continuous
of process plant and facility upgrades: reduction projects in 2020, producing
set globally and implemented Suzhou, China – are ISO 14001 improvement in our EHS performance. manufacturing equipment; utilities
annual energy savings of 1,798 MWhr:
locally across functions. Each of our certified. Key aspects of our EHS such as cooling towers, chillers • Launched an LED Lighting Replacement
Colleague engagement and EHS
• Upgraded cooling tower.
manufacturing, R&D and logistics management system include: committees are critical to the effective and boilers; and LED lighting. Program for quality, operations,
engineering and two production • Installed exhaust fan variable frequency
sites is required to implement the implementation of EHS programs and We are also optimizing operating
• Compliance Management plants. This included replacing older drives and static pressure control.
Zoetis EHS management system, as improvements. We involve our colleagues processes in air ventilation and other
• Risk Assessment in strategic planning and assessing fluorescent light fittings with new LED • Upgraded two chilled water systems.
defined by our EHS Policy Standard, utility systems, and are devoted
units along with Passive Infrared (PIR)
and to continue to advance it • Objective Setting performance status to ensure continuous to procuring renewable energy. • Replaced basement and
detection devices in select areas to
engagement of all colleagues.We
over time. Our sites complete • Competency and Training detect movement and adjust lighting outdoor lighting with LEDs.
encourage our colleagues to participate
While our absolute energy use and
periodic self-audits, checklists and • Employee Engagement accordingly, increasing energy efficiency.
on EHS Committees, identify safety issues,
emissions have increased due to increased
inspections, and review applicable and Communications and implement solutions to improve • Completed replacement of variable Our Commitment
demand for our products, our energy
environmental requirements at least • Management of Change their workplace. These committees speed drives and motors in three to Source 100%
intensity decreased by 2.2% in 2020 from
annually to ensure compliance with • Monitoring generally meet at least monthly. our 2019 baseline. To continue to meet production plants as part of an overall Renewable Energy
reliability program. Existing units
environmental laws and regulations. our customers’ needs, we have expanded
• Emergency Preparedness In 2021, we joined RE100 with
were over 20 years old; new units
our facilities and increased production
a commitment to achieve 100%
• Self-Audit are typically 15 to 20% more efficient.
volume. However, even as we grow, we are
renewable energy sourcing by 2050.
Sixteen units were replaced with a
dedicated to reducing our environmental
RE100 is a global initiative bringing
combined energy saving of 32Kwh.
impact. To advance our efforts to achieve
together the world's most influential
our target of a 5% reduction in energy • Replaced cooling tower, resulting
businesses with commitments to
intensity by 2025, we launched an energy in a reduction in annual energy
achieving 100% renewable electricity.
review program in 2020 that compiled consumption of 318 Mwh.
To advance this commitment, we
energy efficiency opportunities at each of
• Gained efficiency and reliability by plan to initiate a formal approach to
our ten largest energy consuming sites. In
replacing uninterruptable power supplies. procuring renewable energy through
2021, we are expanding this program to
Power Purchase Agreements (PPA).
• Commenced replacement program for
share learnings across the entire network,
We will focus most of our efforts
end-of-life office air conditioning units
prioritize high impact projects and track
in North America, as it represents
to comply with European regulations
our progress.
approximately 75% of our global
for ozone-depleting substances.
electricity consumption. In conjunction
• Upgraded older meeting room
with these efforts, we are securing
projectors to LED screens.
Guarantee of Origins (GoO) and/
• Completed a high-level energy or electricity from providers of
audit that identified a number of renewable electricity for our larger
opportunity areas for 2021. sites in Europe. As of mid-2021, eight
of our international manufacturing
sites operated with 100%
renewable electricity.
44 45
Zoetis Sustainability Report 2020
INTRODUCTION
COMMUNITIES
ANIMALS
PLANET
The Drive to Protect Our Planet The Drive to Protect Our Planet
Water Solid Waste Hazardous Waste
Water issues continue to grow We also integrate lean manufacturing Pharmaceuticals in Zoetis is committed to minimizing its Zoetis is actively working to reduce the
in importance worldwide. We principles and tools to help facilities the Environment impact on the environment by reducing the amount of hazardous waste generated
reduced our water intake in 2020 identify areas for water conservation. Zoetis is actively working to mitigate generation of solid non-hazardous waste. in our manufacturing operations. We
by 5% compared to 2019. At our Kalamazoo, Mich. manufacturing the presence of pharmaceuticals in the Zoetis progressed our waste management maintain an EHS Policy Standard: Waste
facility, our colleagues led a Green Belt lean environment (PiE), with a primary focus on objectives through increased focus on and Surplus Material Management,
Our water consumption data includes manufacturing project that re-engineered environmentally responsible manufacturing recycling, improved segregation of waste that defines performance expectations
our global manufacturing, R&D, logistics the amount of time required to clean of antibiotics and other medicines that streams and raising awareness of recycling. for proper management of waste. We
and office operations. We use water the various tanks, glove boxes and tri- may pose a risk to the environment if not This has resulted in a 41% increase (1,646 also maintain best practices guidance
directly in chemical and pharmaceutical blenders used at the site. By reducing the handled properly. To this end, we have tons) in recycled waste compared to 2019. to assist in preventing releases to
production, to clean equipment, for amount of time the cleaning equipment implemented a PiE program to perform Key contributors to this 2020 success are: soil, groundwater or surface water.
cooking, maintenance, landscaping, operated, the site reduced the amount of
detailed waste stream assessments at our
• Segregated 50 tons of steel and other In 2020, Zoetis decreased generation
sanitary needs and other activities—not water used during equipment cleaning by
manufacturing sites and key suppliers.
recyclable materials from construction of hazardous waste by 25% compared
including water used in closed loop more than 250,000 gallons each year.
These assessments include targeted
debris generated during an expansion to 2019. Continued efforts to identify
systems (other than water added during
training and setting expectations for site
the year). Most of the water that Zoetis In 2021, we plan to conduct a more project at our Kalamazoo, Mich. opportunities for recycling of hazardous
management and personnel, fine-tuning
withdraws is from municipal water supplies. rigorous analysis of our operational water manufacturing site rather than sending waste streams have also resulted in
operations for environmental risk, and
impacts. We aim to better understand to landfill. a 35% increase in hazardous waste
implementing best practices such as
Managing wastewater discharged from where water scarcity or issues related • Established a cardboard recycling recycling during the same period. Key
materials handling and equipment cleaning
Zoetis’ production operations is one to clean water access may present initiative at our Union City, Calif. site contributors to this success were:
procedures designed to mitigate the risk of
of our most significant environmental significant business challenges. With that resulted in recycling of 130 tons of
potential releases of active pharmaceutical • 151 tons of spent solvent from
priorities. We are committed to improving this information, we will be better corrugated cardboard during 2020.
ingredients from manufacturing Rathdrum, Ireland site recycled
our water discharge and continuing to equipped to make important decisions
operations wherever necessary. • Reused more than 1,000 tons of for energy generation.
evaluate new treatment technologies. that could have significant environmental,
manure generated at our Lincoln, Neb.
social and financial implications. • 220 tons of wastewater treatment
To reduce our water intake, we have site as fertilizer.
sludge from Rathdrum sent for
invested in improved technology such as • Identified an opportunity to recycle use in energy recovery.
closed loop cooling systems, identified 18 tons of ‘super sacks’ packaging
• 1,600 tons of oil by-product from
opportunities to reduce and reuse water in materials associated with a new
manufacturing operations at
our processes and implemented additional product line at our Chicago Heights, Ill.
Willow Island, W. Va. reused in a
efficiency measures. For example, our manufacturing facility.
biofuel blend rather than direct
Navi Mumbai, India R&D facility operates a
• Recycled 14 tons of wooden pallets at our disposal by incineration.
rain harvesting system to collect rainwater
Lincoln, Neb. site for use as wood chips.
from the roofs of the site’s buildings. The
rainwater is used for the building’s utility
cooling tower, reducing water use by
more than 2.5 million liters per year.
46 47
Zoetis Sustainability Report 2020
INTRODUCTION
COMMUNITIES
ANIMALS
PLANET
The Drive to Protect Our Planet The Drive to Protect Our Planet
Packaging Environmental Metrics1,2
To provide further focus and
Packaging Sustainability Greenhouse Gas Emissions 2020 2019* 2018*
support for future initiatives,
Improvement
Zoetis formed a packaging Scope 1 emissions (metric tons CO2e) 76,134 71,742 70,261
In 2020, following a review of council that is a cross-
CYTOPOINT™ packaging, we Scope 2 emissions (metric tons CO2e) 222,072 213,865 206,154
functional team comprising
implemented a change from
manufacturing operations, R&D Scope 1 and 2 emissions (metric tons CO2e) 298,206 285,607 276,415
plastic clamshells to paperboard
and marketing colleagues who
cartons — resulting in a reduction
Scope 1 and 2 emissions intensity (metric tons CO2e/$1MM revenue) 44.7 45.6 47.5
review packaging proposals of 27 tons of plastic waste annually.
for customer experience, Our teams in Lincoln, Neb. also Energy
sustainability, manufacturability, identified opportunities to improve
recyclability by moving from white Energy (GJ) 3,001,248 2,876,835 2,795,036
value and product quality. This
PET with UV inhibitor additives
team will also develop tools to
Energy intensity (GJ/$1MM revenue) 450 460 480
to paperboard content.
align with industry standards
In the U.S., we transitioned
Renewable energy (GJ) 130,435 123,176 73,184
for determining environmental
the Styrofoam coolers used for
impacts of packaging options and,
transporting vaccines—which Renewable energy (%) 4.3% 4.3% 2.6%
in the long-term, set and drive require stable temperatures to
Renewable electricity (%) 8.8% 8.6% 5.3%
improvement goals and programs. maintain potency—to fully recyclable
shipping coolers. Upon receiving
Water
To further our efforts, in 2021, we plan
shipments, customers can easily
to define a new sustainability packaging
reuse or recycle the materials.
Water intake (cubic meters) 2,906,865 3,070,829 2,836,472
policy and guidance document. We will
We continue to complete pilot projects
also engage with our suppliers on their
that allow us to identify areas of Water discharge (cubic meters) 2,647,259 2,332,472 2,155,824
sustainability efforts and innovations for
strengths and improvements, helping
use in future packaging development. Water intake intensity (cubic meters/$1MM revenue) 435 491 487
us uncover additional opportunities
for packaging efficiency and
Water discharge intensity (cubic meters/$1MM revenue) 397 373 370
reduced environmental impact.
Waste
Solid waste (kilograms) 12,799,097 10,686,324 10,216,980
Solid waste recycled (kilograms) 5,630,506 3984,569 3,503,267
Solid waste intensity (kilograms/$1MM revenue) 1,917 1,707 1,754
Solid waste recycled intensity (kilograms/$1MM revenue) 844 637 601
Hazardous waste (kilograms) 9,454,480 12,592,955 10,746,552
Hazardous waste recycled (kilograms) 2,665,400 1,973,233 447,555
Hazardous waste intensity (kilograms/$1MM revenue) 1416 2012 1845
Hazardous waste recycled intensity (kilograms/$1MM revenue) 399 315 77
1 These metrics cover our Global Manufacturing and Supply, Veterinary Medicine Research and Development, and
other operations not including standalone office spaces or Zoetis Reference Laboratories. These emissions account
for more than 99% of our operational emissions. All emissions are calculated based on location emission factors.
2 2 020 metrics underwent a data integrity review. The process identified opportunities for data process improvements
that will inform future data collection. Data collected for 2019 and 2018 is restated as part of this process.
To learn more about how we nurture the
world and humankind by advancing care for
animals, visit: zoetis.com/sustainability
ZOETIS GLOBAL HEADQUARTERS
10 Sylvan Way
Parsippany, NJ 07054
973-822-7200
sustainability@zoetis.com
zoetis.com
All brands are the property of their respective owners.
© 2021 Zoetis. All rights reserved.
